The Austin Children's Museum (soon to be the Thinkery: www.thinkeryaustin.org) is hiring a Technology Education Coordinator. Scratch and LEGO Robotics experience definitely a plus. This is a full time position with benefits (!). Pass it on to anyone you know who is qualified and might be interested. Thanks! Job Description POSITION TITLE: Technology Education Programs Coordinator DEPARTMENT: Education CLASSIFICATION: Full Time- Exempt REPORTS TO: Associate Director of Education POSITION SUMMARY The Technology Education Programs Coordinator at the Thinkery serves as a content expert in technology education for the museum and coordinates a series of innovative, technology-related experiences for diverse audiences in a variety of program formats, including after-school outreach, in-museum programming, and camps. This employee supports the Museums mission and strategic goals while contributing to the financial stability of the organization by increasing the Thinkerys capacity to offer engaging technology-related programming that align with our mission. In addition, this coordinator provides technology-related curriculum content and training to other programs (including camp, birthday parties, sleepovers, adult programs, etc.) and develops new programs, such as onsite afterschool clubs, exhibit based programs, and workshops. MAJOR RESPONSIBILITIES ྾ Develop, plan, and implement a robust menu of offerings for a variety of audiences that realize the museums mission through implementation of innovative technology based curriculum. The menu should engage a diverse audience, including existing and new audiences and be realized in a variety of formats. Programs should support the museums financial goals, as well as promote strategic objectives and educational goals. ྾ Exercises an innovative approach to program and content development that utilizes new and emerging technologies. Must be willing to take risks in order to offer unique and interesting visitor experience. ྾ Develop and manage program budgets with emphasis of maximizing earned revenue potential and in compliance with museum standards and procedures. ྾ Contribute to grant proposal development, reporting, and deliverables to funders. Track and report on program financial status. ྾ Provide accurate and timely analysis and reporting of program outcomes and goals. Collaborate with Education leadership team and external evaluators to establish measurable objectives and practicable evaluation procedures to assess program effectiveness and audience impact. ྾ Work with Marketing team, as well as partnering organizations, to effectively communicate programs in order to grow and develop audience and promote programs success. ྾ Develop and deliver staff trainings and materials that support direct service staff in the delivery and implementation of applicable programs. Prepare staff to implement programs (logistics, etc.). Enrich staffs understanding of specific topics, as well as techniques to foster active engagement, inquiry processes, and creative problem solving for program participants. Provide follow up feedback for staff and their supervisors on performance. Contribute to direct service staff reviews. ྾ Support reservations function through development and implementation of effective, efficient, user friendly processes. Maintain knowledge of reservations software systems in order to provide support during high call periods and to generate progress reports for program reservations and revenue. ྾ Coordinate with Associate Director of Education, Associate Director of Programs, Innovators Workshop Manager, Kitchen Lab Coordinator, and Early Learners Manager to develop technology-related experiences that enhance and integrate with exhibit-based programming. OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES ྾ Foster collaborative relationships with a spectrum of community partners to broaden the museum's audience, build its stakeholder network, and leverage resources. ྾ Assist in engaging and sustaining volunteers through introduction, training, direction, delegation, and oversight. Be encouraging and provide corrective measures/constructive criticism when necessary. Proactively provide support ensuring each volunteer has a productive, safe, and meaningful experience. ྾ Schedule and availability reflects that the organization is a 7-day a week operation. Coordinates with other members of the leadership team to ensure that direct service staff has support during all operational hours. ྾ Participate as a member of Education Department Team and Grants Team, as well as any appropriate task forces. SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITY ྾ Serve as supervisor for direct service staff and volunteers in applicable programs. CREDENTIALS/EXPERIENCE ྾ Bachelors Degree in education or relevant field ྾ At least 3 years experience developing, implementing, and coordinating programs ྾ Experience in classroom instruction and/or informal learning environments ྾ Experience providing direction and leadership for staff and/or volunteers in a professional setting KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS & ABILITIES ྾ Command of educational theories, practices, standards, and resources related to content area. ྾ Ability to imagine and successfully implement playful, engaging, and innovative experiences for a variety of learning styles and ages. Ability to quickly adapt existing activities and programs to serve changing audience needs. ྾ Demonstrate expertise and proficiency in a variety of technologies, including, but not limited to, LEGO Robotics and SCRATCH. Awareness of new and emerging technologies that can be utilized in programs. ྾ Demonstrate understanding of STEAM concepts related to content area, and comfort in implementing new activities that address those concepts. ྾ Excellent communication skills with children, teens, families, and educators from diverse backgrounds. ྾ Proven passion and commitment for informal STEAM education, and enthusiasm for the potential impact technology education can have on learners ྾ The ability to be flexible and maintain a positive attitude in the face of changing audience needs, organizational capacity, and budgetary realities. ྾ Spanish fluency a plus. To apply please submit resume, cover letter and 3 professional references to Paige Deleon, Human Resources Administrator, at pdeleon@austinkids.org by Sept 9, 2013 at 5pm. Please include the following in the subject line of your email TEC Application- YOUR LAST NAME.FIRST INITIAL (example: TEC Application-deleon.p)

