My class is making Scratch cards to share discoveries that were made in our last project. Everyone shared the project in a group, edited it and when it is presented again to the group, it will be with a Scratch Card from the project that can be shared. We'd like to start a "folder" with these homemade cards so that others could add to the collection and we could improve the first draft of the cards by making suggestions to each other. How to do it? We imagine a pdf - that's created from a Google Docs template. It could also have a short video clip of some sort that showed only the part of the project described by the card's blocks. Is there a space already on the Scratch site where we could post these and others could find them and add to them? It would also be good if we could have a conversation around each card. Any ideas?

Hi Susan, I love the concept of having members of your class create Scratch cards. There isn't really an easy place to do that on the Scratch website if the "cards" are PDFs and videos. Have you thought about making a website or blog or wiki for it? Like with Google sitesor WordPress? Of course, we'd also be happy to host the Scratch cards here on ScratchEd! Sincerely, K

We would love to post them on Scratch! but could we do it on the open community - or both - but not just ScratchEd? Our idea is that people could leave comments so the cards could be improved as time went on or even remixed. So far we have a template and about 6. We are sharing them in our class this week and then after we proof them, we could post the first group. Here is a link to a first draft of one:https://docs.google.com/document/pub?id=1xjPjPEQ1TCp4UXuugvtTmbdKi45B0Ax0QdHb1oqFrdw Let me know if this link doesn't work. We have also taken a screencast of the script on the card - not the whole project. Here is our dilemma: 1. We'd like to post the cards. 2. We'd like to post the .mov files and have the cards be clickable to see the .mov 3. We'd like users to be able to leave comments about the cards 4. We'd like to be able to share remixed cards. What do you think? All ideas are welcomed! We started today trying to figure out how to post a .mov uploaded to a Google Doc on our class "Site" BUT we'd like to open this to the whole Scratch community and hope others would like to "trade cards"

I'm wondering about a drupal site... but any database that we could create options to fill in the blanks would be fine... here's the template we're using... https://docs.google.com/document/pub?id=1aIaZ5Z085-WF54Yy9BKyenCvq9jKHx-6P8AUBD1JfO4

Based on your requirements list, it seems to me like a blog or a custom Drupal site would work best.

How can we start a blog that would be easily linked or available to the whole Scratch community? Is there anyone else doing anything similar? I wonder if it would be better to post them somehow as little scratch projects, put the link to a pdf in the project notes and put all these little projects in a gallery? There must be other ideas being shared with the whole community. How did Scratch resources start?

All of the infrastructure for posting them as Scratch projects is already there, so that's pretty easy. As for a blog linked to the whole Scratch community, the linking part is easy. Creating the blog with all of the content is the labor-intensive part. :) Do you have access to blogging platforms through your district? Free services like WordPress could work as well.

Edublogs would also be a good place to have a blog about scratch projects, they are already set up for student bloggers.

