We're so excited to host our first ScratchEd Twitter chat on Wednesday, October 28 from 7:00-8:00 PM EST.Our topic isHow to Host a Meetup. To join, usethe #ScratchEdChat hashtag or follow the@scratchedteam account, who will be moderating the chat. Totally new to Twitter chats? Learn more below... What is a Twitter chat? Twitter chats are conversations that take place through tweets that are connected through a shared hashtag. Our hashtag will be#ScratchEdChatand our first chat is Wednesday, October 28 at 7pm (Boston time). How can I join? You will need a Twitter account to participate in the chat. To sign up, visit twitter.com. There are several ways to view a chat as it is happening: Go to Twitter.com and type in the hashtag you want to follow (e.g. #ScratchEdChat) in the search bar. You will see a list of every tweet that uses the hashtag, with the most recent tweets at the top. Third-party tools (outside of Twitter) are also available. Tweetdeck (Tweetdeck.com) and Tweetchat (Tweetchat.com) are two options. What should I expect from the Twitter chat? The Twitter chat will start at 7pm (Boston time). The @scratchedteammoderator will start the chat by welcoming participants, inviting people to introduce themselves. The chat will proceed with a series of questions from @scratchedteam. Chat participants are encouraged to share their thoughts on questions and to pose their own questions to the group. To add to the conversation, be sure to include the chat hashtag #ScratchEdChat to your tweet. The chat will be 60 minutes, ending at 8pm (Boston time). What else would be helpful to know about Twitter? Here are a few Twitter tips, (adapted from TwittersInsider Tips) #- A hashtag is any word or phrase with the # symbol immediately in front of it.The symbol turns the word into a link that makes it easier to find and follow a conversation about that topic. .@- Tweets that have a period (.) before the @reply are meant to be seen by all of a users followers--not just those who follow both the sender and the receiver. RT - Like an e-mail forward, retweets pass along another users tweet to all of your followers. This can be indicated with a RT when you manually retweet (copy and paste the content from a tweet into your own tweet) instead of using the retweet button. This is a way people spread news on Twitter and add their own commentary to the shared tweet. MT - Similar to RT, an abbreviated for Modified Tweet. You can place a MT before the retweeted text to pass along your own message in addition to a modified or shortened version of the original. HT - A hat tip or heard through symbol (HT) is used to indicated that youve found out about something from another Twitter user--and you want to credit them on Twitter.

