Thanks to everyone who attended thefirstScratch Educator Meetupof the 2013-2014 school year, which took place on October 5 at MIT.Here is a recap of what happened: Attendees Below is a list of people who attended the meetup on Saturday: Sandra Bleecker Lawrence Burns Derek Breen Janet Dee John Gomes Steve Gordon Ingrid Gustafson Lorraine Leo Maria Litvin Helen Poldsam Mitch Resnick Prathima Rhodes Adam Scharfenberger Rosemary Slattery Nanu Swarmy Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Jeff Hawson To connect with someone from the meetup, click on their name above and leave a message on their profile page. Recap My Summer Vacation - During introductions, Michelle asked participants to gather in a circle and share their name, what they do, and what they did this summer. Breakout Sessions - The agendawas co-constructed by everyone present.We wrote breakout session ideas on large sticky notes and then organizing them on the wall by time/place. Two pairs of 45-minute sessions emerged. During the first set of breakout sessions, Karen and Mitch led a group discussionabout the Hour of Code initiative (share your activity ideas inthis discussion thread). Next door, Janetintroduced strategies for usingstudios, remixing, and debugging in Scratch. In the follow session, a group was organized around using Scratch in different subjects, during whichDerek demoed a maze project, whileIngrid answered questions and shared resourcesfrom her experiencesusing Scratch in middle school. Announcements - The meetup concluded with a design-your-own lunch from Chipotle, networking, and a group-share of announcements for the upcoming month. Photos- Check out all thephotos from the meetup on Flickr. Announcements Hour of Code: December 9-15- http://csedweek.org Program or Be Programmed by Douglas Rushkoff - ExcerptorBook MIT Education Arcade meetups coming soon. - http://education.mit.edu MassCUE (Computer Using Educators) Conference: October 23-24 at Gillette Stadium - http://www.masscue.org Somerville Mini Maker Faire: October 5 - http://www.makerfairesomerville.com Rube Goldberg Chain Reaction Event: October 11 at MIT Museum - http://web.mit.edu/museum/programs/secondfridays.html Nicholas Negroponte X-Prize for Learning talk: October 7 at MIT - http://events.mit.edu Educator Appreciation Night: October 16 at New England Aquarium - http://www.neaq.org Please feel free to share you reflections and announcements from the event below. Join us for thenext meetup on Saturday, November 2!

