Thanks to everyone who attended the first Scratch Educator Meetup of 2014!Here is a recap of what took place at the event: Attendees Below is a list of people who attended the February 2014 meetup: Derek Breen Nancy Cooperider Kathy Donovan Janet Dee Angela Green Traci Jansen Sharon Jason Pamela Jones Jennifer Judkins Audra Kapplon Noel Kuriakos Lee Lamson Lorraine Leo Kael McManus Kelly McManus Colin Meltzer Barbara Mikolajczak Natalie Paine Jungho Park Pirelli Rose Adam Scharfenberger Rosemary Slattery Timothy Smith Alina Spaulding LeeAnn Wells Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Jeff Hawson To connect with someone from the meetup, click on their name above and leave a message on their profile page to start a conversation. Recap Networking and Introductions- The day started with networking over Starbucks and delicious Flour pastries. We then gathered together to share new year's resolutions and goals for 2014 -- including Scratch and beyond. Scheduling and Breakout Sessions - The schedule for the day was created collectively using sticky notes. Each person contributed two breakout session ideas, which were then grouped together by Colin and Barbara to divide the space and time. Six sessions were proposed: Janet organized a session introducing Scratch and physical world connectionswhere people played with MaKeyMaKey kits, Derek started a discussion to share curriculum ideas, Rosemary and Audra hosted an introductory Scratch session, Colin and Karen facilitated a session for hands-on Scratch projects, Barbara led a session about going beyond the basics of Scratch, and Lorraine hosted an idea-share for classroom management strategies. Lunch and Announcements - After breakout sessions,Chipotle lunch was followed by lively conversation withfriends from the App Inventor team, endingwithannouncementsof upcoming events. Photos- Morephotos from the meetup can be viewed on Flickr. Please join us at the next Scratch Educator Meetup on Saturday, March 1, 2014. - https://2013-2014scratchmeetups.eventbrite.com

It was great to meet everyone last Saturday. I am trying to place names with faces here but not all have profile pics up here so I am struggling to re-connect with those who I spoke with! I hope to get to another meet-up but traveling to Boston from over her ein Central NY is not the easist thing to do every month, but I will TRY to get to another. I am going to this in Constructing Modern Knowldge Workshop in July in Manchester NH. Anyone else going to that?I know Mitch Resnick will be there as one of the guest speakers. Stay warm everyone!

