Greetings Scratch Ed community! I am planning to volunteer at a local library to introduce 4th and 5th grade children to Scratch 2.0. We'll have one hour in the computer lab to use. I have read some of the other discussions with great interest, and am considering the use of "scratch cards" or a modified version of the introduction of the curriculum. I would be very interested to hear from others' experiences in similar situations and what approaches were taken. How much formal guidance is provided/needed or recommended? Thank you in advance.

I highly suggest using the Scratch Cards. It gives them enough "to be dangerous" in Scratch. I print out 3-4 copies of each one (make sure they're in color and laminated!) and let them learn in groups at their own pace. I literally just cheer them on and encourage them to add something cool to each little program. Hope this helps! -Jon Barber (@hoosjon on Twitter)

I like the first lesson in the curriculum guide as an introduction to Scratch. I made an altered version incorporating Legos, it's under resources.

I always start with the twelve reference cards(http://scratch.mit.edu/help/cards/). I let children choose which ones they want to start with. After that you could do Code Club. It's aimed at 9-11 year olds. All the resources are given to you. Includes these projects:- Term 1:- Level 1: Felix & Herbert, Whack-a-Witch and Fireworks Level 2: Fruit Machine, Fish Chomp and Desert Race Level 3: What's That, Paint Box and Create Your Own Game Term 2: Make a monster, Sound machine and Frantic Felix When you register your Code Club you'll also have access to: Term 3: HTML and CSS Term 4: Python (Coming soon.) You can find out more at: http://codeclubworld.org/ (Download the materials for Term 1 and Term 2 from the bottom of the page) We've been running Code Club at our local library for two months now.

Hi Ben, Scratch cards are a good starting point, but if the children have computers at home and you want to engage them after the workshop has finished, maybe you can try to show them how can they make with Scratch a simple video-clip putting subtitles in a song. Each children would select a song, get the lyrics (both download from internet) and program a sprite (also they could download photos of the singers) to move, change apariences and control the speaking (music and lyrics together). In this way, they could create their own video-clip, a real final product ready to show and share with others. Probably when the children go back home, they will try to develop new versions or new video-clips and they would want to know more about Scratch, how to insert different effects, movements, ... they would be inside the creative spiral. Perhaps, would be a great idea to offer them a way to attend questions after the workshop finished. Also, before the workshop, you can comment to children that they have to select a song with the lyrics. There they will learn to make video-clips they could share in internet. Hope this help, Jon Bustillo

Thank you all for the comments - they were all very helpful and much appreciated - - Ben

