I have looked at the Teachers FAQ section https://scratch.mit.edu/educators/faq and cannot find an answer and I have used the search feature in Discussions and still cannot find what I am looking for so I would love the communities support please. As you can probably tell I am setting up my classrooms for the first time using my new teacher account. I understand putting an activity in the classroom so I can work through Lesson 1 etc. But I don't understand when, how and in what circumstances do you use a Studio - is this like a gallery the children save their finised project in to? Can I share a scratch projects in to a studio e.g. Penguin Jokehttps://scratch.mit.edu/projects/10014986/ so that the children open this to remix? I am following the CreativeComputing20140806 .pdf as my introduction to teaching Scratch for across three year groups, aged 6 to 9 years of age. Because they are so young the Teacher Classroom system is going to be invaluable for me and I really want to get to grips managing my space before I introduce it to the kids. Thank you for any support offered, Donna x

Studios can be used for a number of different reasons. It is a place where you can store a collection of projects. For example, it can be used as a general space for your students to add their completed projects, for a specific assignment, based around a particular theme, or even used as a place to collect projects you are inspired by (among so many other possibilities). It's really up to you how you would like to use studios.

HI I am also trying to set up a classroom with a bunch of programs. And I am hoping I can simply add a list of links to Scratch I want to teach. And I also want to be able to let Ss to create a new acct and begin scratching immediatley in my classroom. However, I am not sussing it as fast as I would like to so looking for answers or tips. Is the studio where classrooms are created? Do the Ss join with regular Scratch? THANKS ?Lost Migrant

Hi there. Have you checked out the Teacher Account FAQ page and video? I think it may be helpful in answering your questions. You can find both the FAQ and the video here:https://scratch.mit.edu/educators/faq

