Hi! I'm wondering whether any of the teachers here have had negative experiences with their students and the Scratch community and how they have handled it. What happened to me on the surface doesn't seem that strong compared to what goes on elsewhere on the internet but it has dampened and tarnished Scratch at our school. I am hoping that others might help me know how best to respond to the situation, since I am just a volunteer teacher and my experience at classroom teaching is limited. Iwas the one toset up teaching Scratch at my school. I had each student in 2-5 set up a Scratch account using their first name only followed by the initial of our school. I asked them not to post their photos and to mindful that things were somewhat public online. It didn't occur to me that perhaps I should have gathered permission from parents ahead of time. It didn't seem much different to me, in concern, than having the students access National Geographic and similar sites online. There are only about fifty students in the entire school and the other teachers are not very involved with computers so, although they had heard me rave about Scratch, they probably did not think too much about it later and thought, I found out later, that I had more control of the situation than I actually could have. Overall, the students have been very enthusiastic about Scratch and some do it at home as well, which I basically thought was a good thing. However, for whatever reason, one of the older boys commented on a project of another Scratch student somewhere in the USA saying that their project was "lame". I don't know whether he made this comment from home or while he was in my classroom. The first I heard about it was when I found the teachers and students very upset that the student at the other school had, in return, posted a comment to my student's project containing mild profanities at the quality of my student's project. I was called on the carpet by the teachers that operate the school. They couldn't believe that I would expose the students to something where they might receive comments like this. They also couldn't believe that I would put the students in a situation where I wasn't reviewing each comment they received before they could read it. I was told that the situation was completely unacceptable and that the parents would never tolerate it. We were on vacation break for a week and today I submitted a parent approval form for Scratch which I had put together, referring to the website and speaking of the benefits of the program, explaining how the community operated in a generally positive manner and asking their permission. I gave the form to the head teacher and she said that she needed time to review it with the other teachers andI am to refrain from teaching Scratch until the other teachers come to a decision. I'm not really a participating member of the teachers' group since I am just a volunteer teacher two mornings a week. In the past, I think I have generally been on good terms with the regularteachers, so I will wait and hope that we will be able to continue using Scratch in some form. How have the rest of you handled situations like this? I feel really terrible about doing anything negative towards the students, particularly on issues concerning safety and self-esteem. My wife, who has much more teaching experience than me, though compared it like this. What if my student on the playground had yelled out through the fenceto some driver passing by that their driving was lame? Then perhaps that driver might respond with a curse or similar. In this case the driver would actually have seen the student. Would the playground supervisor be responsible and in what way? Are there some materials on a Scratch site that might give me some guidance on issues with classroom safety and parents? Thanks.

Hi Bruce I believe the terms and conditions require a student to be 13 years old to have an account. What I do with my students is upload their work to my own account. This way I can also better monitor any comments made (though that is not perfect). For the most part this cuts back on the negative commenting since it is posted on a teacher's account. I do get permission from the parents before uploading their work to the website. I also explain the age requirements for opening an account and that parents must be the responsible adult at home to monitor the account if they open one. Finally I discuss with the students that there will always be a few "malcontents" out there who will make negative comments "just because" and they shouldn't take it personally. I have been an elementary school teacher for 32 years and find Scratch to be a wonderful program for my students. It's unfortunate that the teachers in your school have reacted in such a negative way to this situation. Hang in there and try to win them over by showing them how much students gain. Perhaps you might consider sharing my lesson plan on Animating Aesops Fables and my student's work so they might see what the possibilities are for expanding their own teaching. I think it will be self-evident to any good teacher and you won't have to do much convincing. http://scratch.mit.edu/galleries/view/37347 http://teachersnetwork.org/grantWinners/Teachnet09_NancyCosta.htm Best of luck, Nancy

Hi Bruce, I'm sorry to hear about your experience with your students using the Scratch site! I think the Scratch site is full of great opportunities for sharing creations, meeting other creators, and learning more about Scratch -- but that's not to say there aren't any problems. As you point out in your message, some of those problems are part of life online. (And interactions with people more generally, thinking about your driver example!) In my experiences of talking to a wide variety of teachers about this subject, some teachers/schools are willing to tolerate some of the problems and treat them as opportunities to learn about interacting with others and self-representation online. Other teachers/schools say that problems cannot be tolerated -- and don't permit accessing the Scratch site from school. Of course, there are things to try other than the kids having their own accounts -- like you posting the projects through a central account, as Nancy suggests. (Just a clarification, it's fine for someone under 13 to have an account, but they need to provide a parent/guardian email address.) I hope you'll keep us updated about your thinking and what happens. If there's anything I can do, please let me know. Sincerely, K

Thanks for your comments and suggestions. I'm thinking about what you said about the central account idea and wondering about some particulars. Would you, then, during class have all the computers logged into the same central account? I suppose the students wouldn't know the password to this account (or else they'd be able to use it unsupervised from home). So would you then type in the password when they want to upload their work? Or do they just save it on the local computers? I'm thinking in particular of several students I have that like to work on their projects from home. Sometimes they turn up in class having made quite major enhancements to what they have done. (One fifth grader even had one of his games selected for a "best Scratch games" gallery someone was putting together.) I'm feeling really mixed feelings about the whole thing. Some students really love posting their projects and hope to get some comments or recognition (as they sometimes do). It makes it feel very exciting and timely to them compared to just doing something for our small computer class. I will definitely look at those lesson plans thoroughly. I like to see Scratch used as a media for learning in other subjects. (Good examples of that would make for an interesting Scratch gallery or perhaps there already is one.) Bruce

Hi Bruce My students do not log in to accounts in class. Instead they work on their projects in class and save it on the local computers. When their projects are completed, I save it to a thumbdrive and upload to the central account at home. (Our firewall doesn't permit us to upload to the Scratch site in school). I see your point about their being able to work on it at home. There is a way to get around that as well. They can work on it at home, save it to a thumbdrive and update it in class. I think all of these issues are easy to work out. As the saying goes "Where there is a will, there is a way!" Nancy

Nancy: thanks for sharing your experiences! I have a few questions: do you let your students use your central account to participate on the site (e.g. post comments, create galleries, tag, love-its, etc)? Also, do you have the feeling that they go and check the comments people have posted on their projects posted on the central account? What do you think students get out of the online community when using a central account?

Hi Andres I do not give the students the password to the account. They do not post comments, create galleries, tag, etc. They do check the comments people have posted on their projects and I let them know when there are comments if they haven't checked. I do think that as my students are only 10-11 years old, it is best that there be some limits on their participation with the online community. As their teacher, I am the responsible party after all. I think a little common sense goes a long way to ensuring that their participation on the site is always safe and a positive experience. Nancy

I also use a central account and suggest to kids that they make a personal one at home under parent supervision. Posting to the school account comes with permission. I didn't think much about the limiting impact this has on communication about each other's projects until seeing the online chat that erupted in a different setting, when we made a wiki to share math concepts. For that, I gave each student their own log-in as a trial. They quickly discovered the message feature, which I was monitoring. Some mornings I came in to find 30 messages, mostly random one-line kid chat but often enough about the math that it positively impacted the quality of the pages. (Then, a couple kids realized they could use the wiki log-in from school to make their own wikis, unmonitored and public. So, alas, I'm not sure if I'll do this the same way another time.) Anyway, the point is that in the restricted Scratch web environment I allow, I'm not seeing anywhere close to the same level of authentic kid commenting as for the wiki project. That seems a shame, and worth addressing.

Nancy, I liked your Aesop Fables project quite a bit. I may do that as a closing project with my 2nd-3rd grade and maybe 4th-5th as well (provided I get to continue with Scratch). --- Regarding the comments, accounts and Wiki discussion, I think it is either clever or a lucky accident that Scratch seems to only allow communication between users as part of project comments. (Maybe there is another way, but I haven't found it.) I think that helps to keep things on topic and also makes it relatively easy to cut down on flack by simply turning off project comments (or so it would seem).

Hi Bruce Glad you liked it. Please let me know how it went with your younger students. Good luck! Nancy

