Thank you to everyone who joined us at the May 2012 Scratch Educator Meetup! Here is a recap and some reflections from the event: Attendees Below is a list of the attendees who attended the meetup on Saturday: Amish Bhavsar David Birnbach Jesse Campbell Debbie Corleto Janet Dee Ingrid Gustafson Tom Kowalczyk Robert Mendelsohn Carmen Mendes Rosemary Slattery Trinh Tran ML Ujwal Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Vanessa Gennarelli Jeff Hawson Mylo Lam Jen Lavalle Aaron Morris Monica Oliver Alexander Schoenfeld To connect with people you met, click on a name above to leave a message on their profile page. Recap Networking -To help attendees meet one another, we started the meetup off with a speed dating activity. Breakout Sessions -Participants were asked to contribute ideas to the whiteboard. Then, Karen organized the topics into two blocks of 45-minute breakout sessions. The first block of sessions included three discussions around finding resources for financing Scratch workshops, getting started with Scratch, and ideas for a presentation Scratch project. The second block of breakout groups included a remix design challenge to build a project using the JetPack Girl sprite and a discussion around student motivation and engagement. Photos on Flickr- View photos from the event onFlickr. Show & Tell Scratch Day 2012 - Jen explained what Scratch Day is and shared new resources for event organizers. Creative Computing Workshop - Michelle introduced the Creative Computing workshoptaking place at MIT this summerand invited people to enter the participant raffle. JP Girl Remix - Jesse shared his remix of JetPack Girl that was created during the design challenge breakout session. Night-Flight - Jeff presented his night-flightproject which was inspired by a scrolling project remixed by Karen. Jet Girl Remix - Janet showed her versionof remixing JetPack Girlthat included objects to be collected. JetPack Girl and Plato's Cave - Trinh and Mylo collaborated on developing a game where JetPack Girl must avoid falling rocks. Nightlite - Vanessa shared anout of this world projectthat she created during the remix design challenge. Upcoming Events Celebrate Scratch Day with us at MIT on May 19. - http://sdmit2012.eventbrite.com Join us for the last meetup of the school year! June Meetup on Saturday, June 2, 10am to 1pm. - http://jun2012meetup.eventbrite.com The next ScratchEd webinar is on Wednesday, May 30 at 7pm EDT - http://scratchedwebinarmay2012.eventbrite.com Find out more about future events on ourEvents page

