Hi everyone, I'm going on maternity leave from January to June and my school is looking for someone to fill my position. This would be a part time position, and involves quite a bit of Scratch! Hence listing it here! Here is the posting with info about how to apply. And here are more details: Brooklyn Prospect Charter School is seeking a High School Design Technology Teacher for a part-time maternity coverage position. Ideal candidates have demonstrated success with a broad range of students, and are looking to be a collaborative member of a highly professionalized learning community. Candidates must firmly believe in Brooklyn Prospects mission and core values: Our Mission: Serving kindergarten through twelfth grade, Brooklyn Prospect pairs students with excellent teachers in a college preparatory environment using the International Baccalaureate program. We prepare students to become global citizens and help them to develop the love of learning that provides the foundation for lifelong personal and academic success. BrooklynProspect is committed to: Teaching the skills and habits of mind necessary for success in the global community Recruiting, training and retaining excellent teachers Reflecting the diversity of Brooklyn's neighborhoods Brooklyn Prospect Charter School team members are immersed in an extraordinary learning community, allotted significant collaborative time, and offered many opportunities to grow professionally. As faculty members in a school with a growing program, our teachers play a vitalrole in school governance and curriculum development. Please contact us if you or someone you know may be interested in this unique opportunity. The High School Design Technology Teacher will teach 2 sections of Design Technology, lead an advisory and perform other duties as assigned. Course content includes an introduction to computer programming using the language Scratch (scratch.mit.edu), LEGO robotics using the NXT and Lego Mindstorms, and small house design using SketchUp. Position Requirements: Previous experience using or teaching Scratch, Lego Mindstorms and SketchUp is a plus; the successful candidate will demonstrate the ability to learn these tech tools quickly New York State Teaching License 2+ yearsexperience teaching Design Technology, or a classcoveringsimilar content in a NYC public school or a similar teaching context. Experience with the IB Middle Years Program (MYP) is a plus. Compensation for part-time teachers is competitive with NYC Department of Education (DOE). Part time employees are ineligible for the Brooklyn Prospect Charter School benefit programs.

