Hi all, Excited to be meeting you all soon. My handle on Twitter is @saorog, please follow me during the conference or add your own handle here if you like. I've added everyone here (and who RT'ed my tweet) as members to a public list on my Twitter account: https://twitter.com/#!/saorog/scratchmit2012 My US phone number for July is617-678-9639 Regards, Stephen #scratchmit2012

my Twitter name is @wagongrrl and I am always excited to follow other educators who are involved in Scratch, Logo, Robotics, programming etc with their students. I will be at the conference Thursday through Saturday and will be doing a "poster presentation" on Thursday about putting on Scratch Days in your communities. -Tracy Rudzitis The Computer School, NYC

Hi, I am @brainbits on Twitter and will be at the conference Wednesday (for the WeDo workshop) through Friday. Looking forward to following folks, meeting folks, and playing with Scratch! Cheers, Laurie Bartels LS STEAM Integrator Riverdale Country School, Bronx, NY

My username:  @MsVeraDLeon I am from Mexico.

My twitter name is @kimxtom. I'm bringing my son Xander who just helped me wrap up a 2-week tech camp which included Scratch & Kinect2Scratch (& Alice, Arduino, Mindstorms, stop-motion, green-screening and much more...). We are looking forward to seeing what others are doing with Scratch and I'm especially interested in getting more girls interested in CS and I think Scratch is a key element.

I am @csunfoley (thought I havent been tweeting much this summer). See you all #scratchmit2012

@davegram +davidgrammerstorf Looking forward to it!

Iam @matt8bit - feel free to follow and connect!

Hi Laurie! Where are you staying? I'll be in the dorms with my students - we'll be doing a workshop on Thursday - hope to say hello!

Hi Tracy, Are you bringing students? We'll be sure to come by your poster! I'll have 7 students and our workshop is on Thursday. Looking forward to catching up!

I'm @susanettenheim - looking forward to connecting!

