Thank you to everyone who joined us at the final Scratch Educator Meetup of the 2011-2012 school year! Here is a recap and some reflections from the event: Attendees Below is a list of the attendees who attended the meetup on Saturday: Sandra Bleecker Lawrence Burns Jesse Campbell Janet Dee John Gomes Ingrid Gustafson Connie Horton Sean Justice Erasmo Lara Lorraine Leo Colin Meltzer Carmen Mendes Razia Sadik Jean Sorensen Hong Wan Tham Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Jeff Hawson To connect with people you met, click on a name above to leave a message on their profile page. Recap Spectrogram - After quick introductions, Michelle led a networking activity tohelp everyone get to know one another better. Breakout Sessions -Participants brainstormed breakout session ideas in groups and then decided on the agenda for the rest of the afternoon. Two blocks of breakout sessions occured. In the first block, Colin led a discussion around how to encourage depth in programming while Sandra and Sean led a group discussion on the community aspect of Scratch as a learning tool. During the second block, Razia facilitated a session around sharing curriculum ideas and Ingrid led a group in talking about supporting young Scratchers. Photos- View pictures taken during the meetup onFlickr. Show & Tell State Capitals Project- Colin demonstrated the design challenge that his breakout group developed, using lists and variables to create a US state capitals guessing game. New Bedford Video - Larry shared a video about the 21st Century afterschool enrichment program that he and John have initiated in New Bedford, MA. National STEM Video Game Challenge- Ingrid presented a video game project created by one of her middle school students that recently won the National STEM Video Game Challenge. Creative Classroom Norms and EdCamp - Janet shared a list of "Norms of the Creative Classroom" that she found from a fellow Scratch educator's Twitter account and introducedEdCamp resources. Scratch 2.0: Michelle presented the Scratch 2.0 preview video which overviews some of the new features being released with Scratch 2.0 later this year. Upcoming Events Join us for the next ScratchEd webinar: "Scratch Educator Show & Tell" onWednesday, June 27 at 7pm EDT - http://scratchedwebinarjun2012.eventbrite.com The Scratch@MIT Conference is happening this July 25-28 at MIT. Early registration is still available. - http://events.scratch.mit.edu/conference Find out more about future events on ourEvents page.

