Hi! I recently finished editing a new book called "Learn to Program with Scratch," which is meant to teach middle school and high school kids basic programming skills. It's a full-color book with illustrations to go along with the explanations, and there are lots of guided examples and exercises for readers to practice. The book has readers creating animated science simulations, artistic programs, and games. You can find out more about the book and read a sample chapter here: nostarch.com/learnscratch You can also check out some of the book's applications in action at our Scratch studio: http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/345309/projects/ If you're using Scratch in the classroom, I think you'll really like the exercises and ideas for further exploration. If you want review the book, just drop me a line at jenniferg at nostarch dot com. I'm happy to send out review copies for bloggers, media outlets, and so on. :) All the best, Jennifer

This is a great book, really the first Scratch book I have seen that explains intermediate computer programming concepts in a Scratch context. It's clearly well-edited, too! I am quite enthusiastic about using it in a way that can extend my students' interest in Scratch as they develop a passion for programming.

Hi Jennifer, I'm using Scratch with my middle school students to teach programming. I'd love to review your book. Joe Donahue jdonahue805@gmail.com

Do you know if you can use a school purchase order to order a class set of e-books?I'd really like to have this to use in my classroom.

Thank you so much for the kind words!

I believe so. Just email me at jenniferg at nostarch dot com, and I'll connect you to our sales department.

Hi, Joe! I'll drop you a line shortly for more information.

Hi Jennifer, I am using Scratch to introduce programming ot my 6th,7th, and 8th graders in Virginia. I would love to review your book! Gabrielle Schoppa gschoppa@k12albemarle.org

Hi Gabrielle!I'll drop you a line shortly with more information.

Congratulations on your book, I, too, am looking forward to reviewing it!

Fantastic book Jennifer, which explains Scratch and programming really well. I wish you lots of sucess with this book.

I'd be happy to review in various British media. I'm involved in CodeClub here. But you need a UK sales outlet with cheaper postage!

Would that I had power over postage! If you'd like to drop me a line (jenniferg at nostarch dot com), though, I'd be glad to discuss further over email.

I would be very interested in your book for the ninjas in our club, Coderdojoport. Would you also send me on details. ger.walton@gmail.com Thanks and best of luck.

I would be very interested in your book for the ninjas in our club, Coderdojoport. Would you also send me on details. ger.walton@gmail.com Thanks and best of luck.

Hi, I am on a committee that is creating curriculum for a coding elective throughout our school district - 32 elementary, 6 middle and 5 hs - I would love to review your book. We are planning on using Scratch as part of this curriculum. Tracey Theisen ttheisen@pvschools.net

@Andy and Beth:Thanks so much for your kind words. :) @Tracey and Geraldine:I'll drop you both a line for more information!

Hi Jennifer, Iteach Scratch at Elementary and Middle school levels in Redmond area. Do let me know if Ican get a copy for review. Abhay Joshi abjoshi@yahoo.com

This is a really great book! I have been teaching Scratch to elementary-level students for a couple of years, and have tried to purchase or review nearly every book on Scratch that I can get my hands on. This is truly one of the best books I have reviewed. It contains many examples and projects that I can present to the students as a group, or have them try on their own. Some of the examples are simple enough to illustrate just enough of what I'm trying to teach (for example, how to use the Stamp tool), or lengthy enough to present as a challenge that encompasses multiple types of blocks or processes for a great learning experience. I appreciate the step-by-step projects and the visual guidance. If my classes were longer, I would certainly use this book as the "text book" to follow. As it stands now, my 6-week/once-per-week courses don't quite allow for that kind of depth, but I am able to extract many of the books samples to offer quite a lot of breadth into my courses. This book also really takes a Scratch user from the basic concepts of programming that is so available even to the casual Scratcher, to truly deeper concepts (such as nested loops, recursion, physics and advanced equations). I have yet to follow through with experiencing every page of this book, but my intent is to do so, as I'm certain it will put me in better shape to help my students and to develop my curriculum toward continually advancing my students' programming abilities and understanding.

