The 2012 Creative Computing Reunion was a day-long event at MIT that brought together educators from the 2009, 2010, and 2011 Creative Computing summer workshops, as well as some special guests who joined us. Here's a recap and some reflections from the reunion... Attendees If you'd like to contact someone you met at the event, click on their name below to leave a message on their profile page. Andrea Edwards Anne Marie Wyman Francisco Cervantes Claire Caine David Grammerstorf Debbie Slade Diane Pierce Dustin Scott Eleanor Cerny Ernest Dodson Elizabeth Witte Frank Iannucci Glen Goto Hans Batra Judy Barbera Julianne Ross-Kleinmann Jennifer Sacks Lorraine Leo Linda Redding Lynn Rosario Ryan Evans Roberta Sarnacki Ron Geason Stacy Goto Sandra Reyes Vicki Wright Susan Wright Karen Brennan Mitch Resnick Michelle Chung Mylo Lam Aaron Morris Recap Despite a snowstorm, 27 educators gathered at MIT for the reunion. After a speed networking activity and a huge WELCOME BACK from Karen and Mitch, the group launched into morning breakout sessions. Four groups emerged: Intro to Scratch - During this session, led by Mitch, those who were new to Scratch or wanted a refresher course were able to gain hands-on experience building interactive collage in Scratch. Rubric Review- A group of educatorsfrom Suffern, NY are developing an assessment to accompany the Scratch curriculum guide draft and they organized this session to receive feedback on their rubric. Scratch/CS/Java Course Connections - Frank and Stacy led this session to discuss how to make connections between the learning that their students are experiencing with Scratch and Java programming. Scratch Activity Design - Ron, Michelle, and several other educators took this time to brainstorm activities and challenges that might help engage students who are stuck or are struggling to make personal connections with Scratch. After lunch, we had the pleasure of hearing a wide variety of presentations during Show & Tell: Frank discussed strategies for engaging both boys and girls in his class and shared some of the types of projects they created. Jennifer talked about how she uses the Scratch website during class with her 8th graders. Eleanor started a discussion around creating electronic design journals. Claire shared projects that were designed by her fourth graders while learning about lists and variables. Ron shared his experiences working to engage students about the coordinate graph using Scratch. Anne Marie presented games created by 7th and 8th graders during an enrichment course. Ernest shared a sample Scratch project that one of his students created during summer camp. David presented an assessment rubric that he and his colleagues are currently developing to complement their Scratch curriculum unit. Debbie showed a project she developed that creates melodies in Scratch. Julianne presented a draft project and requested feedback on behalf of one of her 5th grade students. Ryan presented student projects that were designed to use lists. Lorraine shared projects made by her K-6 studentsthat illustrate creating, communicating, and collaborating with Scratch. After Show & Tell, we held two more breakout sessions, each lasting 30-minutes. During the first 30-minute period, sessions offered included: EDC/MIT Instrument Design - In this session, Francisco and Karen presented an assessment tool currently in development to evaluate the types of computational thinking skills that students develop while working with Scratch. Intro to Curriculum Guide - Aaron and Michelle invited educators to learn more about the Scratch Curriculum Guide draft and share their experiences from using the guide. The second set of breakout sessions covered: Scratch Website - Jennifer led a group discussion around what challenges and opportunities might arise from integrating the Scratch website as part of the curriculum. Connecting the Physical World - Mitch presented different tools that help make connections between Scratch and the physical world such as the LEGO WeDo Robotics Kit, PicoBoard, and Xbox Kinect. Resources Each participant received a Scratch Starter Kit which includes a copy of the Scratch curriculum guide, Scratch Cards, Scratch Cat stickers, a Scratch pin and other resources. If you'd like to share feedback on the Scratch curriculum guide draft, please share your thoughts in the guide discussion forum. - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/node/10945 You can watch all the Show & Tell videos here. - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/scratch-educator-show-tell-videos-creative-computing-reunion-2012 Go to the ScratchEd Flickr page and relive the memories by viewing photos of the event and upload any pictures you have from the reunion. - http://www.flickr.com/photos/38090850@N08/sets/72157628998333445/ Future Events We hope to see you a future event. Here are some of the upcoming ScratchEd events: Scratch Educator Meetups: Held at MIT, these free monthly meetups are hosted every first Saturday of the month and are a great way to meet others, learn more, share ideas, and get feedback. The next meetup is Saturday, February 4 from 10am-1pm. - http://feb2012meetup.eventbrite.com/ ScratchEd Webinar: Every last Wednesday of the month is ScratchEd Webinar Wednesday. Join us online for the next webinar: "My First Scratch Project," on Wednesday, January 25 at 7pm EDT. - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/node/11595 Scratch Day: This year, Scratch Day is on Saturday, May 19 and it's never too early to start planning! -http://day.scratch.mit.edu/ Scratch@MIT Conference: The biennial Scratch conference will be held this summer at MIT from July 25-July 28. We encourage you to consider submitting a proposal. The due date for proposal submission is February 15. - http://events.scratch.mit.edu/conference/ Keep in Touch Don't forget to keep in touch! Connect with us on Facebook- http://www.facebook.com/ScratchEdTeam Follow us on Twitter - https://twitter.com/ScratchEdTeam Email us at scratched@scratch.mit.edu Thanks again to everyone who participated this year and we're look forward to seeing you at the next reunion! Sincerely, The Creative Computing Team

