Hello ScratchEd members! My name is Joe Young, I am a Teen Services Library Assistant at Hercules Public Library in Hercules, CA. I am currently working on a grant proposal to fund a Creative Computing class at my library; one aspect of the program I am proposing would be staff training by a Scratch expert to help other library staffin my organization develop Creative Computing classes at their community libraries.Does this project sound like somethingyou would like toparticipate in? We would, of course, provide a fee for the staff training session and take care of any travel arrangements that would be necessary. A little information about my library: Contra Costa County Library is a public library system that provides services to residents of California state. There are 26 community libraries and patrons can access a variety of resources and materials online as well. The county itself is a primarily suburban county in the San Francisco Bay area, with slightly overone million residents as of the 2010 census. Regarding the proposed training: We would be aiming for aWinter 2013 or Spring 2014 date for the training. We would like to host the training in a centralized location in the countyto allow for interested staff from all branches to be able to attend. Depending on the cost associated with the training, we may be interested in scheduling multiple training sessions. The purpose of the training would be for staff to develop enough skill with Scratch to be able to use the program, either in conjunction with the Scratch Curricululm Guide or independantly, to implement a Creative Computing class at their community library. We are looking for an individual with a high level of proficiency using the Scratch program in an educational setting who would feel comfortable providing instruction to a group of 15-20. If you are interested in this opportunity please feel free to contact me at jyoung@ccclib.org;please title your email"scratch expert for stafftraining" and be sure to include, in the body of the email, the fee you would ask to provide training sessions and what travel arrangements would be necessary to accomadate you(if any). Thank you very much for your time and attention! Please let me know if I can provide any further information about this project. Sincerely, Joe Young, MLIS

