Hello Scratch Community! We are Mast STEM Academy, a leading institution in China providing STEM courses through project-based learning approach for grade 2-7 kids.We invite top-notch STEM educators around the world teaching and motivating kids to get interested in these areas during our winter and summer camps in major Chinese cities such as Shanghai and Shenzhen. We are now looking for oneScratch Programming teacher to teach Grade1- Grade 3 kids in Summer 2018 camp. If you are experienced scratch educators and passionate about STEM education, please contact us! Time:7/30/2018 - 8/10/2018 Hours: 9:00am _ 4:00pm JobResponsibilities: - Develop scratch course and lesson plans and do research on topic before the camp start with details that explain methods used to implement the course goals and objectives. Participate in before camp marketing event on-line or through mobile apps. - set up class materials or kits, convey key STEM concepts to school students, answer student questions while maintaining student interest and engagement, provide valuable feedback back on students, courses, and content - Keep detailed and accurate records of your student's performance, including class participation, skills mastered, insightful questions or comments, and strengths or weaknesses . - Construct final academic assessment of each student before the last day of program in an appropriate tone, detail, and personalization. Skills Required - (Must have): - At least two years of teaching Scratch, or three years in STEM teaching - Need to be highly motivated, independent, detail oriented and have the capacity and patience required to run a size of less than 20 kids class - Hands on project building knowledge in STEM education - Enjoy thinking outside the box - Have rapport with children between Gr.1-5 - Be goal-oriented and self-driven - Work independently with little guidance To apply - send your latest resume (cathyliao@maststem.com) - please put "Scratch instructor application" in yoursubject line Compensation: - All travel and lodging expense are paid as well Visa application fee. - $1500 per week as the base plus discretionary bonus at the end of Camps. Location: The work location will be in Shanghai/Shenzhen, China

