Hi all, As a ScratchEd intern this fall, I'mworking on a series of resources highlighting the use of Scratch across different subject areas. I'm currently looking at Scratch in the math classroom, and I know many of you have used it very successfully in this context. I'd love to hear any examples you have involving how you integrate Scratch into the math curriculum and what kinds of creative projects your students produce. Thanks so much for any ideas you can share! Mary Adelaide

Hi! I'm currently collaborating with Universidad de Valladolid, Spain. We have two projects that use maths and Scratch: We developed "MATCH: Programando Matemticas con Scratch" (MATCH: coding maths with Scratch), a research project in which we developed four guides to encourage different mathematical concepts on children 9-10 years (5th Primary here in Spain; USA's Grade 4). Concepts like angles, times, basic aritmetic operations,polygons, others). We have already tested those guides in different classrooms. We also have two extracurricular workshops, running in the cities of Valladolid and Segovia, called CJP (Club de Jvenes Programadores; Young Programmers Club), in which weekly (2 or 3 hours each week) over 50 children (ages 7-15) develop their own projects in Scratch. They use A LOT mathematics on them (although I think they are not aware of it :D); some are published on a Studio we have on scratch.mit.edu. Two great examples are the Bottle Flip Challenge and an economy game they are developing right now. I hope this can help :) Thanks! Pablo

Hi there is a math group in Google+ created by Carl after CCOW 2013 https://plus.google.com/communities/112544633264531144573 I have used Scratch with a 10th grade Students had to build a thre weel NXT Robot (ApeBot) to collect waste and simulating three village squares (but as we are leaving in Italy they are with strange and different shapes), so before starting we worked on polygon and math art like. After they built three scale models using cardboard and wood and the bots are moving on. A really nice work. https://scratch.mit.edu/studios/372287/

thanks in sharing Pablo, very interesting

Hi all, I'm secondary school math teacher in Spain. For this school year, the Grade 8 students are working with Scratch in order to apply their knowledge in a practical way. They know how to use Scratch because last year they was working several introduction activities wich are designed in order to apply the Polya's problem solving technique. For this year, for example: If they are working with integer numbers and fractions, they make a construction in order to explain how to read a mix operation in english. If they are solving prblems about percentages they are going to make a consturction for calculating a discount of a product (like an online shop). If they are solving problems about the pythagoras theoreme they are going to make a construction to apply the theoreme. They main idea is make one or two constructions every unit for working to develop the curriculum with Scratch and computational thinking. I'm testing the scratch teacher acount for working this project. I'm also working with the University of Crdoba in order to research how Scratch and computational thinking improve the learning process comparing students who work with and not. I hope I can help you. If anyone need more information or obe informed about how the project is developing, just mail me :) Best regards, lvaro Molina

lvaro, Maria, and Pablo - thank you all so much for sharing your ideas! I've enjoyed checking out the examples you've shared, and I appreciate your help.

Mary Adelaide, let us know please what you come up with in the future. This is a really interesting topics. All the best.

Thank you Mary Adelaide for you post, this year I teach 11th grade so I would integrate simulation, as an Angry birds game, when I introduce conic section, parametric equations of a parabola, in particular.

