I have over four decades of experience with computers so I'm not fazed by jargon and terminology, but I'm interested in suggestions that you may have concerning the terminology to use with young people learning Scratch. 1. Do you "run" or "execute" a program? "Execute" sounds rather macabre and computer don't "run" anywhere unless you pick up your laptop and run with it! The Scratch RG uses "run" but I've seen learning material that uses "execute". Any other alternatives? 2. Do you use the word "program", either as a noun or a verb? The RG seems to avoid it and limit itself to "project" as a noun and "create" as a verb. 3. There seems to be a problem with too much overloading of the word "block". Clearly, a "block" is the physical unit used to write a program (analogous to "token" in an ordinary programming language), but the RG seems to use it additionally for "instruction"/"statement", and, of course, many blocks are used for expressions, variables and so on. I'd appreciate hearing of your experience with different terminology, Moti

1. Do you "run" or "execute" a program? "Execute" sounds rather macabre and computer don't "run" anywhere unless you pick up your laptop and run with it! The Scratch RG uses "run" but I've seen learning material that uses "execute". Any other alternatives? I think I always say "run". 2. Do you use the word "program", either as a noun or a verb? The RG seems to avoid it and limit itself to "project" as a noun and "create" as a verb. I use "program" both as a noun and a verb. I also use the "project"/"create" combination. 3. There seems to be a problem with too much overloading of the word "block". Clearly, a "block" is the physical unit used to write a program (analogous to "token" in an ordinary programming language), but the RG seems to use it additionally for "instruction"/"statement", and, of course, many blocks are used for expressions, variables and so on. I call each item in the palettes a "block". I call a collection of blocks a "stack.

Hi Moti, I think run is commonly understood, and it's generally what I use. But if you want to be creative and specific while avoiding personifying your computer, you could use instructions in the form of "Click the flag to make your cat dance." I'm guilty of not using the term project consistently, but I try because that's how Scratch saves, opens, and refers to the "programs" we create. With regards to a block. it's the pieces of each script and I think it's natural to feel you overuse the word. However, it would be worse to search for alternative names for the same thing. The key to terminology, from where I sit at least, is to ensure you define it so your audience understand its and then use it consistently. Regards, Mike

