Special thanks to everyone who joined us for the March 2013 Scratch Educator Meetup! Here are some reflections from the event: Attendees Below is a list of people who attended the meetup on Saturday: Will Borden Derek Breen Tracy Eisenberg Steve Gordon Pamela Jones Joseph Kess Janice Kowalczyk Tom Kowalczyk Lorraine Leo Cindy Mahr Barbara Mikolajczak Gillian Rondinone Rosemary Slattery Michelle Chung Laura Johnson To connect with someone from the meetup, click on their name above to leave a message on their profile page. Recap Networking: Who's Here? Tag Cloud- At the beginning of the meetup, attendees participated in a self-tagging networking activity. Each person created four to five keywords describing themselves and their work, and then, collectively shared their tags on a whiteboard. The activity was used to facilitate networking and to give a sense of who was at the meetup. Introductions -During introductions, people shared their names, where they are from, and their experiences using Scratch. Breakout Sessions -After some group brainstorming, two types of breakout sessions emerged: hands-on withScratch 2.0 and the LEGO WeDo, and a discussion around helping people (students and teachers) use Scratch. Show & Tell -We hosted a short Show & Tell session over a delicious lunch ofChipotle burritos and chips. Lorraine shared a large-scale, collaborative Scratch project that she is currently working on with Japanese Scratch educators, Yoshiro Miyata. Derek, who was inspired by last meetup's design challenge, presented his space invader's game created in Scratch 2.0. You can watch video of theseShow & Tell presentations here on ScratchEd. Group Discussion -At the end of the meetup, the group shared lesson plan ideas and discussed strategies for supporting both students and teachers. Find out what was shared and continue the conversation on thediscussion notespage. Photos- Viewphotostaken at the meetup. Do you have any reflections, questions, or suggestions about the meetup? Please share them as a comment below. Want to attend the next meetup? Sign up for an upcoming meetup at http://scratched.media.mit.edu/events

