This issue of the ScratchNotes newsletter was sent out on October 25, 2013. ScratchNotes ?A seasonal newsletter for the Scratch educator community Fall 2013? Volume 4, Issue 4 Scratch 2.0 Offline Editor (Beta) Now Available! We are excited to share that a downloadable (beta) version of Scratch 2.0 is available. Try it out and please share feedback (including bug reports!) in the Scratch or ScratchEd discussion forums. http://scratch.mit.edu/scratch2download Creative Computing Online Workshop Resources Creative Computing is a free online resource for educators wanting to learn more about creative computing with Scratch. Explore the workshop activities and resources, which include video tutorials, walkthroughs, readings, and sample projects. https://creative-computing.appspot.com/preview 2013-2014 Scratch Educator Meetups Meet up with us! Our free, monthly Scratch educator meetups take place every first Saturday of the month at MIT. Join the ScratchEd Team and other local educators to network with colleagues, get new ideas, and learn more about Scratch. Meetups are free, include lunch, and can count towards PDP points. https://2013-2014scratchmeetups.eventbrite.com Scratch Across the Curriculum Curious about how educators integrate Scratch into other subject areas? Check out the Scratch Across the Curriculum story series, featuring educators who use Scratch to teach Math, English, Social Science, Art, Music, and other subjects. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/content/1681 Hour of Code Participate in Computer Science Education Week (December 9-15) by organizing an Hour of Code event part of a worldwide initiative to introduce coding to 10 million kids. Learn more about the event on the Hour of Code site, which will include an hour-long Scratch experience. http://csedweek.org/participate

Hello, With respect to the Hour of Code event, I'd like to understand if it's possible to obtain a preview/beta version of the Scratch implementation planned by the team? If you need test feedback, I'd volunteer to be a beta tester of the "Making an Interactive Holiday Card" tutorial that appears to be planned: http://csedweek.org/learn2 I'm planning to discuss the Hour of Code content options with several 2nd grade teachers, and believe Scratch would be perfect for that age group's introduction during the Computer Science Education week event. Thanx, Newt Antoniuk

