Thanks to everyone who joined us for the May 2012 NYCScratch Educator Meetup! A special thanks to our friends atEducation Development Center (EDC)/Center for Children and Technology(CCT) for all of their generous support! Here is a recap and some reflections from the event: Attendees Below is a list of the attendees: Amish Bhavsar Francisco Cervantes Susan Ettenheim Cameron Fadjo Keledy Kenkel Jason McDonald Tracy Rudzitis Clive Thompson Karen Brennan Michelle Chung To connect with people you met, click on a name above to leave a message on their profile page. Recap Speed Dating- In order to help participants meet new people, Michelle facilitated a speed dating activity at the beginning of the meetup. Show & Share - In this informal version of Show & Tell, attendees made short presentations of Scratch projects, student work, lesson plans, or other Scratch-related work, followed by feedback and discussion. Show & Share ScratchEd - Karen introduced the ScratchEd online community and talked about the upcoming Scratch@MIT conference. Scratch Card Resources - Susan's students have developed their own Scratch Cards as extensions to the original Scratch Card resource. She shared theskipping spriteexample from the YouTube channel and invited others to contribute using the Scratch Card template. Accel Learning - Amish, a Scratcher parent turned afterschool learning program cofounder, talked about his experiences and observations, particularly around gender participation. Scratch Unit - Tracy shared her Scratch unit by showing one student's connect-the-dots Scratch project and presenting handouts of her lesson plans and assessment rubric. Scratch Curriculum - Cameron described a three-part, instructional Scratch curriculum he produced to help educators get started with Scratch. Scratch Course - James talked about using the Scratch Activitiesin his classes,presentedsample student work,and invited people to thePacker Collegiate Institute Scratch Dayeventin December Upcoming Dates and Events May ScratchEd Webinar Wednesday: "Assessing Computational Thinking", Wednesday, May 30 at 7pm EDT -http://scratchedwebinarmay2012.eventbrite.com June Scratch Educator Meetup at MIT, Saturday, June 2, 10am-1pm - http://jun2012meetup.eventbrite.com Scratch@MIT Conference, July 25-28 - http://events.scratch.mit.edu/conference Find out more about future events on ourEvents page.

Thanks so much for the wonderful opportunity to get together!

And here's a link to the Show & Tell presentation about design journals that I mentioned (it's Eleanor Cerny's presentation):http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/scratch-educator-show-tell-videos-creative-computing-reunion-2012

Sounds like a terrific event! Wish I'd known and I would have been there. (I've got to update my email settings....argh....)

