I have put this discussion under "How do I" category. Because I'm new to Scratch (but not to programming) itself and this is the first time I'm interacting on this board. I really need to know certain things. Like 1. I'm planning to add scratch programming lessons on one of my blogs. I have read that the Scratch curriculum guide is distributed under creative commons license, so I can use it as my reference in my blog posts. Can I copy-paste exercises and screen shots of Scratch on my blog? 2. Is there any other blogs out there on this subject? So far I have not found any in my google search. I appreciate your help/answers/pointers for these. Thanks and regards Sonal

Hi Sonal, Yes, the curriculum guide is distributed under creative commons share-alike licensing, so you can share exercises from the guide and screenshots of Scratch in your blog posts under the same license. Perhaps it might also be useful to let your readers to know where you found the resource? I'd love to hear more about how you are using Scratch and the curriculum guide. Perhaps you might consider sharing your blog as a resource on ScratchEd for other educators? Here are a few resources that show how other educators are using their blogs to talk about Scratch or show student work. - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/search/node/blog%20type%3Aresource Hope that helps! Please let me know if you have any other questions. Looking forward to hearing more about your work. Michelle on behalf of the ScratchEd Team

Hi Michelle, thanks a lot for your positive reply. Definitely I'll link the original resources here on the Scratch site. I would also be my plesure to add my blog as a resource here, once I have put something useful. ); I was trying to find out a scratch screen shot with all different labels of it's part. I saw it once but today I'm unable to find it. I'm clicking throguh all the resources for half an hour so far.. Well, thanks again and will post the blog link as a resource as soon as I can. Regards sonal

Hi Sonal, Sounds great! Looking forward to seeing your blog. There are a few user guides with labeled images of Scratch in the Resources section here on ScratchEd. The Scratch Reference Guide is also available with an overview of the Scratch interface on page 2. Thanks, M

