Thanks to everyone who attended theApril 2013 Scratch Educator Meetup.Here are some reflections from the event: Attendees Below is a list of people who attended the meetup on Saturday: Michael April Christine Blaszczynski Sandra Bleecker Rosemary Brancato Jesse Campbell Janet Dee Colm Duffin Pamela Jones Lorraine Leo Doug McGlathery Colin Meltzer Barbara Mikolajczak Gina Rossi Rosemary Slattery Anne Marie Wyman Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Jeff Hawson Laura Johnson Matthew Ong Roshi Razavi To connect with someone from the meetup, click on their name above and leave a message on their profile page. Recap Networking: What do you want to do today? - Attendees were asked what goals/questions/expectations they had for the meetup. These were captured on sticky notes and collected on the reflection wall to help shape the day's agenda. Introductions -During introductions, Michelle gathered everyone in a circle and asked each person to say their name, three words/phrases to describe themself, and one goal or question they had shared during the "What do you want to do today?" activity. Breakout Sessions - Based on participants' interests at the meetup, two main breakout groups emerged. Colin and Gina led a hands-on session with Scratch 2.0, including working on design challenges, WeDo/Kinect extensions, and trying out new camera feature. Across the room, Janet led a discussion session around using Scratch with high school students. Check out Laura's discussion notes hereand Janet's reflections here. Photos- Check outphotosfrom the gathering on the ScratchEd Flickr pool. Show &Tell Presentations Rosemary S. presentedmaze projects created by her high school students and talked about different ways students couldadd extensions to a basic maze, for example, adding levels, score, a timer, or enemies. Colin, Jesse, Rosemary B., and Mike demonstrated their Rube Goldberg machine, combining theWeDo, Kinect, and Scratch 2.0. Anne Marie shared two projects made by middle school students she works with. The first is a book report that a group of students requested to present using Scratch and the second is aphysics game inspired by Angry Birds. Gina, Karen, and Jeff talked about what they discovered about the new camera feature in Scratch 2.0 while collaboratively building an interactive trampoline project. Doug presented on his use of Scratch with local high school students, describing his curriculum and sharing some example projects. Karen gave a quick update about Scratch Day 2013 and the MIT's Scratch Day event. Do you have any other reflections, questions, or suggestions about the meetup? Please share them below.

