i2 Camp is seeking both a Lead Teacher and Assistant Teacher for two week-long Scratch Game Design courses being held at Roxbury Latin. The courses run from July 6 to July 10 and from July 13 to July 17. Course Description In this course, you will use Scratch to create an original video game with custom graphics, sound effects and music. You will begin by remixing an existing game, gradually gaining design skills and confidence. When you are ready to develop a whole new game, you will learn how to focus your ideas, integrate player feedback and refine your 2D game before sharing it with the world. No prior computer programming experience is required. Working for i2 Camp i2 Camp is a hands-on, project-based STEM summer day camp designed to broaden middle school students exposure to innovative science, technology, engineering and math. The co-ed camp has developed its program by partnering with some of the worlds leading scientific and academic institutions, including MIT, The Museum of Science in Boston, Stanford University, MathWorks, the New York Academy of Sciences and Teachers College, Columbia University. Teachers will be trained by i2 Camps curriculum partners to understand the curriculum and the activities planned for each course. Courses will be focused on hands-on learning and will therefore be limited to a maximum of 20 children, with up to three instructors in each course, including a lead teacher, an associate teacher and a high school student acting as a near peer. Lead teachers will be responsible for overseeing this team of instructors. Lead Teachers_ Must have previous K-12 school teaching experience and an interest in project-based learning. Associate Teachers_ Must have or be working toward a degree in a STEM field or in K-12 STEM education. Previous classroom experience is a plus. The camp will run in each locationMonday_Friday, and teachers must be at the camp from 8:30am _ 4:30pmevery day. Children of teachers who enroll in the camp will be given a discount to attend the camp. Lunch will be served each day. Salary varies by location and will be discussed during the interview process. You can find out more and apply online here:http://i2camp.org/work-with-i2/teachers/

