An incredible THANKYOUto everyone who attended the Final Scratch Educator Meetup at MIT on June 7, 2014.Here is a list of participants and a recap of what happened. Attendees Below is a list of people who attended: Sandra Bleecker Brian Bulfer Janet Dee Ahmet Duman Sandra Flanagan Ingrid Gustafson Rupal Jain Traci Jansen Pamela Jones SeungHee Joo Jennifer Judkins Sean Justice Hulya Kara Joe Kess Sung Gue Kim Jinyoung Koh Noel Kuriakos Celine Laheurte Lorraine Leo Muazzez Lohmiller Natalie Paine Matthew Puma Prathima Rhodes Adam Scharfenberger Laura Scherling Rosemary Slattery Alina Spaulding Claire Weaver LeeAnn Wells Karen Brennan Mitch Resnick Michelle Chung Christan Balch Jeff Hawson To connect with someone from the meetup, click on their name above to leave a message on their profile page. Recap Flour and Networking- As people arrived, coffee andFlour pastrieswere made available for breakfast. At 10:30am, Karen kicked off the event with a welcome and overview of the meetup. Next, Michelle facilitated a speed networking activity in the hallway. Schedule Co-Creation- After getting to know one another in the networking activity, participants came up with breakout session topics and wrote their ideas on small sticky notes. Common interests emerged and were clustered together to form the agenda for the day. Breakout Session 1- During the first set of breakout groups, Karen facilitated an introductory hands-on Scratch session,Rosemary and Janet worked with a group of educators interested in designing Scratch popcorn-maker projectsusing advanced Scratch concepts, and Ingrid led a discussion about integrating Scratch across different curricular disciplines. Breakout Session 2 - In the next round of sessions, Michelle hosted a session to explore some of the new features in Scratch 2.0, LeeAnn organized a group to share Scratch activity and challenge ideas(thanks for the notes, Ingrid!), and Rosemary and Christan started a discussion about designing Scratch lesson plans and sequences. Show &Tell- During lunch, Priya presented an example from herthird graders' water cyle Scratch project, Saundra demoed student projects from her6 grade Digital Citizenship and Literacy class studio, and Ingrid shared about her students using Scratch with MaKey MaKey to create simulations of ecosystems and prey-predator relationships using cloning. Photos- Check out all the photosfromthe final meetup. Till Next Time - The meetup ended with a sweet farewellfrom the ScratchEd Team. A very special thank you and our sincerest appreciation goes out to all who participated in the 2010-2014 Scratch educator meetups. THANK YOU FOR MEETING UP WITH US!

Are you planningto continueScratch educator meetups for2014-2015school year?

We're in the process of figuring that out--and we'll share announcements here on ScratchEd!

