Sunnyside Elementary, a public K-5 school in San Francisco, is looking for a new math and technology enrichment instructor. In addition to developing strong core skills in math, we want our kids to have exposure to creative problem solving and current technology. In our math enrichment program, students are given a design project that they spend several weeks working on. Using the principle of Design Thinking, our students utilize their math skills to create an original and interesting project. We are looking for an enthusiastic, dynamic, creative instructor who can help us build this program. Working in close collaboration with our classroom teachers, this instructor will design differentiated, standards-based math projects for students in grades 1-5, preferably using a Design Thinking framework. For upper grades, these projects should incorporate basic principles of computer programming, perhaps using Scratch http://scratch.mit.edu/ or a similar platform. The projects should reinforce students understanding of the grade-level math standards while providing an engaging and challenging way for students to apply their mathematical knowledge. The instructor will then lead the students in the classroom as they create their projects. The projects should take about 10 weeks to complete. Candidates should possess most of the following: ྾ A passion for teaching math to a diverse student body, and a strong commitment to student success ྾ BA in a STEM field ྾ MA in education or a STEM field ྾ Knowledge of the California and Common Core math standards ྾ Knowledge of and experience with teaching Design Thinking to children ྾ Knowledge of and experience with teaching basic programming techniques to children, using Scratch or a similar platform. ྾ Experience working with a diverse population of elementary age children ྾ Knowledge of how to differentiate instruction in a diverse learning environment This position is part-time, for approximately 8-10 hours a week during the school year. In addition to classroom time, candidates must be available for occasional faculty meetings and some summer planning sessions. Interested candidates, please submit a cover letter and resume to jennifer.helton@gmail.com by April 20, 2012. ?

