Scratch - Connecting Worlds July 25-27, 2013 Citilab Barcelona You're invited to send proposals More details viascratch2013bcn.org

Hi, I am starting to plan my trip to Barcelona and I would like to know if the starting and ending time of the event have already been defined. I need to know in order to make my trip arrengements (plane/train, hotels) Best regards, Sandra.

Program will be made in the months to come. It depends also on the proposals that reach us through scratch2013bcn.org/proposals. But we're aiming for a program that will fill up the three days. thursday July 25th friday July 26th saturday July 27th

Hi Joek, Thank you very much for your prompt response. I'll be checking the forum to learn about the event agenda in the coming weeks/months Best regards, Sandra.

Joek, First, thanks for heading up the conference and answering all the questions! I am sorry to bug you but I am writing a grant proposal to attend and I need to give a figure for the registration. I know that it may be subject to change but any information would be appreciated. Thank you!

On the website we mention an early bird rate of  100. So you can be pretty sure fee will be at most  150 :-)

Hi Joek, Will dorms or other inexpensive accomodations be offered? As the deadline approaches, I am trying to figure out how to afford the travel. Have you made plans to offer accomodations for attendees or presenters? Thanks, Barb

I'm organizing from Amsterdam, that's about a 1000 miles north of Barcelona. The people in barcelona are still working on accomodation deals. I don't think dormotories will be part of the offerings, but please be aware that in Barcelona your options for not so expensive accomodation are way better than in American cities. One thing to consider is an apartment and not a hotel through sites like wimdu.com or barcelona-bedroom.com

Hi - I'm actually thinking seriously that I'd like to attend and I'm not a traveller! Anyone else from NYC thinking of going? East coast?

Registration has opened.

Is there a facebook page or event?

No. Do you think there's a need for it? You may reach me through the contactpage of the webpage.

I just registered and am very excited to be going to Barcelona!

I'm excited to be going to Barcelona--my first time there. I'll fly into Girona on the 23rd around 16:00 and leave on the 28th same time and will have a rental car. Anyone want to share a ride? Any ladies interested in sharing a hotel room near the conference site?

That's the way to go :-) We can save on transport and hotelrooms to have some money left for the things that matter more. A lot of people ask me ik I can be of help with affordable accoumadation. I can't. Well not more than people can find out themselves on sites like booking.com wimdu.com and airbnb.com But the best trick to keep costs under control is sharing.

dear joek are you planning a streaming of the conference? you will make aducators around the world following. best wishes

Actually we're working on extension in time and geography. At the minimum there will be streams from the auditorium. We will record much more and try to make it available afterwards. So we try, allthough time and money are in limited supply :-) We'll also encourage to tag video, photo, tweets with hashtag #scratch2013bcn and for sure some of the visitors will write blogposts. We're in the process of inviting journalists to get wider coverage.

NYC --> Barcelona - anyone else going? I am!

Hi Janet, Please email me directly - settenheim@erhsnyc.net. I'm thinking of flying into Barcelona on Tuesday, the 23, arriving in the morning and leaving Sunday morning, the 28th to fly back to NYC. I'm thinking of staying at NH Cornella - near the conference. Do you want to share a room? Best, Susan Ettenheim

HI - I have a room at the hotel in Barcelona for Tuesday through Saturday night with 2 twin beds with the intention of finding a roommate to share the room - so if you know of someone - please send them my way! -one person that is ;)

Hi Is it possible to attend friday afternoon and all saturday,or workshops need to be attended all the period? Thanks, Beatrice

Three day conference will have about 50 talks, 18 workshops, 4 panel discussion, 4 plenary sessions. Arriving friday afternoon means you miss about 50% ... More precise program to be published this week at scratch2013bcn.org

The conference program is updated. Six (!) keynote speakers, and particpations fro 25 countries. Anything Scratch will be explored at Scratch Connecting Worlds. If you have a chance of going Barcelona July 25-27 you should. And to help the logistics department: register now.

The program is online. Check it out! Register soon and don't miss our own discover Barcelona tour

I made a room reservation in one of the recommended hotels right at the conference and am still hoping to find another conference participant who would like to share the room. I have reserved Tuesday through Saturday nights. I don't mind if you will be there only some of the nights.

Still going but taking the bus to and from Girona and staying with friends who live near the conference center. Sorry if anyone was thinking about joining up.

Looked through the packed schedule and wondering how many, if any, meals are included or will we be expected to eat on our own. Want to warn the folks with whom I'll be staying what to expect and also be prepared money-wise what I'll need to be prepared to purchase in stores or in restaurants. And just curious how many people have registered so far and how many are expected total? And in which languages will sessions be held. I can do Spanish and English, but I'm fairly limited in other languages. Will interpreters be available?

About 75% of registration fee goes into our catreing budget! Registration includes three lunches Spanish style, you will not leave hungry. All day there are free soft drinks / water. Twice a day a coffee break with some snacks. Social event, friday 6-8 PM is not a meal, but there will be snacks with the drinks. So apart from your hotel you need something like  9,80 for 10 rides on the public transport, meals or snacks in the evenening will be something like  15 each. Most bars in Barcelona serve small sandwiches which cost you something like  1,50 each. We're close to 200 people registered. I wouldn't mind if it goes up to 250 or sells out at 320. Conference language is English. People are free to use the self organized sessions for meetings in any language. We don't have translation services.

Sounds wonderful!! Really looking forward to an enjoyable and educational week! Thanks for your prompt reply. janet

what is the family lab? Regards, Beatrice

Just one of the rooms at Citilab mostly used for workshops. During conference name will be "Boy Wizard" and like "Girl Wizard" upstairs it will be used for workshops. Theres a floorplan :-)

Hello Joek, I'll get there on wednesday. I saw there is a city tour, but I already know Barcelona, and I am more interested in an informal meeting with other people attending the conference. Is there some kind of gathering planned on wednesday evening? Thank you for your answer. And btw I saw the program, and it really looks awesome! Claude

We will have dinner near the Cathedral at about 21.00 when we finish the tour. More info about it soon at www.scratch2013bcn.org

That's terrific - thank you! Looking forward to it!

You're most welcme to visit us at Citilab wednesday. We'll be busy with preparations but also do pre regsitration and have time for a chat.

Thank you Joek! I'll come by wednesday afternoon for pre registration and meeting you. Claude

Thank you for your answer to my mail Susan. I'll hopefully see you in Barcelona. Claude

Last minute question...What's the recommended dress for this? Are you suit and tie/dress and nylons types? Jeans and t-shirts? Capris and blouses? I'm flying RyanAir, so I can bring a very limited amount! Don't have room to bring a little of everything, and don't want to bring the wrong stuff, either. From previous ScratchEd event photos, I'd go with nice casual, which, considering the weather here this week, would be capris and light blouses, maybe long pants for dinner. Does that sound reasonable? Please, some nice Barcelonan lady who's attending, give us a good idea!

The walk is the informal gathering. For sure when we stopped moving: 9 pm dinner near Cathedral. That's early to Spanish standards (but we start eaerly the next day. Joek

Heard from Joek--informal. I'm going for capris (longer than knee-length, but shorter than pants) and blouses, so they're good for meetings and sight-seeing (I've read most churches require shoulders and knees covered).  Thanks for the quick reply. See you Wed. or Thurs. janet

