Thanks to everyone who joined us for the March 2013 Scratch Educator Meetup! Here are some reflections from the event: Attendees Below is a list of people who attended the meetup on Saturday: Will Borden Derek Breen Tracy Eisenberg Steve Gordon Pamela Jones Joseph Kess Janice Kowalczyk Tom Kowalczyk Lorraine Leo Cindy Mahr Barbara Mikolajczak Gillian Rondinone Rosemary Slattery Michelle Chung Laura Johnson To connect with someone from the meetup, click on their name above and leave a message on their profile page. Recap Networking: Who's Here? Tag Cloud- At the beginning of the meetup, attendees participated in a self-tagging, ice-breaker activity. Each person wrote on their nametagfour to five keywordsthat described themselves and their work. Participants were then asked to share their tags on a whiteboard, which served as our collectivemeetup tag cloud. The activity was used to help facilitate networking and to give a sense of who was at the event. Introductions -During introductions, people shared their names, where they are from, and their past experiences using Scratch. Breakout Sessions -After a round of think-pair-share brainstorming, two types of breakout sessions emerged: hands-on explorations ofScratch 2.0 and WeDo sensors, and a discussion aroundhow to support diverse learners (students and teachers) in using Scratch. Since everyone expressed interested to both breakouts, we decided to spend most of morning playing with Scratch and the LEGOWeDo Construction Kit, and to then to hold a big group discussion over lunch. During the hands-on session, Cindy led a small group in thinking about how to introduce students to the WeDo sensors, while others explored some of new features in Scratch 2.0, coming with different ways to tackle a maze challenge. Show & Tell -Two educators demonstrated recently created Scratch projects during Show & Tell, which was held at the beginning of a delicious lunch of Chipotle burritos and chips with guacamole. Lorraine shared a large-scale, collaborative Scratch project involving her students and other international classrooms. Derek, who was inspired by the last meetup's design challenge, described how he used the new cloning feature in Scratch 2.0 to produce an amazingspace invaders gamereplica. You can watchvideos of the Show & Tell presentations on ScratchEd. Group Discussion - After Show & Tell, Michelle led a whole-group discussion around lesson plan ideas and strategies for supporting both students and teachers learning about Scratch. You can read about what was shared and continue the conversation on thediscussion notespage. Photos- Check out photosfrom the meetup on Flickr. Resources Scratch Curriculum Guide Scratch Cards Scratch + WeDo Scratch Jr. Do you have any other reflections, questions, or suggestions about the meetup? Please share them as a comment below. Want to attend the next meetup? Sign up for any of our upcoming meetups at http://scratched.media.mit.edu/events

