Hi all, This will be the first time I will bring students. We are in NYC and my students are high school. I think that I'd like to bring them for more than a day trip. Have you brought students? Have you stayed overnight with them? How did you do it? What advice or help can you send to help me - and everyone else bringing students - toplan this? I'm excited - but nervous! Not about my students - just about the arrangments and cost!

Now that registration is open -- maybe it's worth revisiting this question! Anyone have advice for Susan?

At one Scratch@MIT conference it was an option to stay in the dorm rooms that were unoccupied for a reduced cost. Is there any possibility of that sort of thing a possibility this go round, which might provide an alternative for arrangement and cost?

Daniel are you bringing students? My students desperately need reassurance that there will be other teens there! ANYONE??

Hi everyone - now that the program is out, I'm coming back to this conversation to ask who is coming with students and who is staying in the dorms and who might be willing to connect with me and my students so they don't feel like they will be the ONLY students there... because I know they won't be ;) Thanks!

Hi! My son is attending the conference. He is a rising senior and is interning at MIT this summer. Because he is unedr 18, MIT would not let him stay in the dorms but I found out that Boston University will let students stay in dorms if they are over the age of 16. That could be an option. I am not sure if they are allowed to stay for a few days but you can consider this. Another option is to look into apartment style Maybe MIT will give special permission to allow students in dorms for the conference only? Thanks, Sangeeta

Hi - I'm coming with 7 high school students who will be presenting a session on Thursday. We'd love to connect with any other teens coming... middle school, high school, college.... ??

Hey All, I'll be bringing 2 high schoolers from the Science Museum of Minnesota, also presenting a poster session on Thursday. I can propose it here, and then maybe stick something up on a message board if there is one at the conference. Want to have a meet up Thursday night for dinner? -Peter

Hi Peter - This sounds great! Karen - would it be a good idea to have one of the excursions for Thursday dinner particularly open to any teens attending so they could meet each other? - of course welcoming anyone else too! Peter- I think we've actually met- I'm meeting with the 7 - well, 5 of the 7 who are coming with me on Monday at 11 - is there any chance you'll be with your 2 then? We could say hello by Skype video..? Are you all staying in the dorms? We are... and you're actually presenting in the room that we are in on Thursday just before our session!

Hi everybody! I just graduated high school and I'm going to the conference by myself. I'd love to meet some kids my age. I'm staying in the dorms from the evening of the 24th to a few weeks later (I have a short internship).

I participate in conference with three Japanese junior high school students and high school students. Although we can hardly speak English, we would like to make friends with you. And I would like to show you students' work.

Hi - We would love to meet everyone. Is everyone in one dorm? Karen - would you happen to know? Karen/Michelle - anyone else there - do you have any suggestions for a comfortable place nearby for supper Wednesday? If we are all in the same dorm, we could meet in the common room/lobby around 4:45-5 and say hello and compare supper plans - what do you think? Our bus gets into Boston around 3:30 but I'm not sure how long it will take to get the metro to MITand find the dorm. I must also figure out this week - how to "check in" to the dorm. Looking forward to meeting you all!

Yes, as far as I know, you are all in the same dorm. I don't know how many people you'll be or what style of food you'll be looking for or how in/formal you'll want it to be, so I'm not sure what to recommend. Here's a list of restaurants we recommend to people attending our Creative Computing workshop, but searching for somewhere on Yelp/Google might be as fruitful. K

Hi,we are now in Marriot. Tomorrow we take part in work shop of Physhical-Digital Chain Reaction. We are Hiroshi,Yudai,KirIe,and Yuki. And we will find "dorm" to meet you. As we cannot speak English well, we may use atranslation software.

Hello! I am @susanettenheim on twitter. We are staying in Baker House dorm. We get on the bus at 11 in NYC and will arrive in Boston. We are planning to see who else is around and interested in having supper with us today around 4:45 in Baker House lobby. We are presenting a workshop Thursday at 1. Hope to meet you all soon!

Thank you for finding us! It's great to meet you - see you at the conference tomorrow!

Hi Sarah - we didn't connect today but we're meeting in the lobby at 8am tomorrow (Thursday) to walk over to the conference. You're welcome to join us!

Hi Peter - we're probably going to come to your session on Thursday - see you then if not before!

Karen - thanks for the list - it worked out great! Some of us had Indian and some ate at the Science cafe and we all had ice cream together after dinner!

