Advocating for Computer Programming in K-12 Curriculum For 5 years I have been happily teaching computer programming, but at the same time, I have become increasingly frustrated by what I see as the lack of acceptance or understanding of the vital importance for including computer programming in the K-12 curriculum. I believe that Scratch is not only a terrific learning environment it is also a great tool to demonstrate the advantages of computer programming to educators. For example, just as Scratch demonstrates to the user why variables are useful in a concrete way, Scratch demonstrates to administrators and educators what computer programming can offer. I would like to solicit help and advice on how to help promote the integration of computer programming into the k-12 curriculum. Thanks again for all help, Vicki Gold

Maybe looking at organizations that are thinking about this, like theComputer Science Teachers Associationhttp://csta.acm.org/and NCWIThttp://www.ncwit.org/(they even did a profile on Scratch, which we posted to ScratchEd athttp://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/snap-create-and-share-scratch) Or maybe something like http://scratched.media.mit.edu/sites/default/files/Programming-with-Scratch.pdf-- which I know some teachers have used with administrators. Hope that helps, and I'd love to hear what others are thinking... K

Hello Vicki, I too am interested in teaching CS in K-12. I have been programming since 1980 but lack a background in education. I've found it very frustrating, this apparent lack of interest in the public schools to teach CS. I looked into an M. Ed. in Secondary Education program at my alma mater, West Chester University, and CS is not even an approved concentration area. But they do offer a Level I Post Baccalaureate Teacher Certification Program _ Elementary Education, with a concentration for grades 4-8. So I need to get my teaching credentials first, and then I will have this uphill battle which is the subject of your blog. I have joined the CSTA but they are focused on public education, so I either need to get into the public school system or just teach this subject through workshops or one-on-one tutoring. But the good news is I've discovered Scratch. I'm now writing my first program with it, which is the game Reversi. This was actually the same game I used to learn programming back in 1980, using assembly language on an Atari computer. I think it will be a good test of Scratch's capabilities. I'll let you know how it goes. I hope there is some more discussion of this very important subject you've brought up here. Steve Williams

Look at the advocacy page on the ISTE site.http://www.iste.org/about-iste/advocacy.aspx Also, look into papers published in association with STEMhttp://www.stemeducation.com/and use these to build support with local and state boards (if you are in the USA). One more suggestion-if you are in the USA, join your state educational technology association to receive publications and local support.(Go to the conference if possible.) Find out which endoresements, if any, are required to teach Technology in your state.

