Hello, Anyone want to colloborate with me to develop a sharable Moodle/Blackboard 9 weekcourse to introduce students to programming through Scratch? My goal is to have this course ready for January. Besides here, you can contact me on Twitter: weemooseus I am willing to use Google Docs/Wave, wiki, or other format for collaboration. Carl

Things are pretty busy for me between now and January, so I'm not sure how meaningfully I would be able to contribute to a collaboration. But I'm happy to provide feedback/suggestions if that would be at all useful. I think it's an important project! K

Does anyone have a glossary list to contribute to the cause? Carl

Hi, Well, I am heading into the first real week of teaching Scratch using a course I am developing at the same time. If there is any chance that you would be willing to look at my course, I would be happy to arrange a student login. Carl

I'd be happy to take a look!

Email me weemooseus@yahoo.com

Carl, I am about to begin a two-week Scratch unit and would love to look at your course as a means of refreshing my memory and seeing if there is anything new I can add to my unit. It looks like there are some cool new additions this year. Last year the student final project was to demonstrate ionic bonding. The kids really had fun. jbelknap2@mac.com

Ok, I finally got around to writing about this year's experience with Scratch. I have posted my latest blog, if you need more details about what I did, either post questions here or on blog. Carl

Hi Carl. This sounds very interesting but how do I even get to know what Moodle is and how to use it? I am about to finish my first Scratch unit and the kids had lots of fun. May I know if you keep watch on their work by uploading the projects on a central gallery and whether you allow them to comment. The issue of negative comments did not even occur to me till Bruce shared his problems. I am preparing a curriculum for reading and thinking for my next class. The students will use Scratch as the medium to express their answers to the questions. Thank you for sharing your work via your blog. It is good. Best regards, AiBoon

Carl still want to share or swap courses? This is very basic &Istill need to add all the fancy addons for scratch etc. - It would be good if pupils could upload their scratch file as well....later regards Michael I have had go and will give a copy if you want Our school Moodle VLE https://bbec-vle.org.uk/login/index.php User guestuser Pw bbec1234

