The weekly roundup is where the ScratchEd Team shares some of the major -- as well as some of the overlooked -- news, stories, and events related to Scratch that took place throughout the week. ScratchEd Weekly Roundup 07/13/13 - 07/19/13 Congratulations to everyone who completed the six-weekCreative Computing Online Workshop!Still working on your project or ready to get started? The activities and resources are available on the CCOW website. - http://creative-computing.appspot.com Special thanks to all the educators who joined us for the day-longCreative Computing Symposiumat Harvard last weekend. Watch this beautiful videoby Eric Schilling, which captured different sessions and reflections from the event. - http://cc-symposium.eventbrite.com We're looking forward to seeing you at the BarcelonaScratch Conferencethis week. Visit the conference website or thisdiscussion threadon ScratchEd to find out about dinner meetups and an informal walking tour. -http://scratch2013bcn.org The University of California Curriculum Integration (UCCI)program is looking for a Scratch educator to present via Skype during a PD workshop this Thursday, July 25. Please contact them if interested. - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/node/20303 How can you simulate gravity in Scratch? In preparation for an upcoming CoderDojo meeting, this educator explains one method for modelling gravity while creating a game similar to Thrust. - http://leighspersistentthoughts.wordpress.com/2013/07/16/modelling-gravity-in-scratch Christopher Clark has posted Chinese translations of the activity handouts from the Scratch curriculum guide. Awesome! - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/scratch-draft-curriculum-traditional-chinese-translation As a culminating writing assignment, this sixth grader wrote an Overview of Scratch Programming. Check out "What is Scratch?" by Kenneth Yan.- http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/sixth-graders-overview-scratch-programming These are just a few things that we found. Do you have news from the week that you'd like to share? Please post it as a comment below.

Seal Point Academy successfully completed a three day free workshop on Creative Computing for teachers in the state of California. Teachers from Los Angeles and Sacramento area attended the workshop, networked and shared the ideas and challenges to introduce Scratch programming in their classrooms. Teachers from Elementary, Middle and High school attended and were very excited about introducing the computing classes to their students. Another good news is Elk Grove School district offered teachers 18 hours of Professional Development for those who attended the workshop. We are glad Seal Point Academy is able to offer this workshop for free, and be instrumental in assisting teachers to introduce programming in their classroom. We are very thankful for the Elliot Ranch School to open their computing lab and specail thanks to Mike Garguilo at the School in assisting us. In case your school district is interested in workshop like these, Seal Point Academy will be very glad to offer this to your teachers. -Sankar Srivatsa, Ph.D Founder, Seal Point Academy www.SealPointAcademy.com

