We're happy to be hosting two pre-conference workshops for this year's November Learning conference. From 8:30 to 12:30, there's an introductory Scratch workshopand, from 1:30 to 5:30, there's a workshop about ScratchEd. If you've registered to attend either of these workshops, we'd love to hear from you! What prompted you to participate? What do you hope to get out of the experience?

Hello! I'm Nancy- I've taught grades 1-4 in New Hampshire and now 2 years as tech integrator at the American School of Madrid. I have an after-school group 2x a week in Madrid and in the past we focused on Digital Media. I wanted to use Scratch, so 2nd semester last year this group solely used Scratch. I had 8-12 grade 2-4 students (boys and girls) on Mondays and Wednesdays after school for an hour (some came 1 day a week, some both days each week.) There were a few who came to the lab where we met a few minutes before the official end of the school day they were so eager to get going! It was an amazing experience- collaboration, creativity, fun. I mostly watched and asked about what they were doing after I facilitated the start up. I did post some projects. Most students downloaded the program to use at home and set up their own accounts. Next year, I will hold after school groups 4 days a week- 2 days for grade 1/2 and 2 days for grades 3/4. I plan to intro other tools, programs, projects but also have Scratch available. What I want from the 2 workshops is guided training on how to use the program, ideas for how to use in the classroom and connect with others who may want to collaborate. I'm very much looking forward to it! -Nancy

I work with grades 1st, 2nd, and 3rd at an all boy school in Memphis, TN. I help integrate technology into the classroom every day. I also work with teachers to give them ideas and lessons to use with their students. I used Scratch with 3rd graders this past year as an introduction to it for me and the students. They loved it, the teacher loved it, and I loved it. I am interested in how to integrate more into the curriculum and classroom throughout the year. I am also looking forward to learn more about it other than what I have taught myself through using it with the 3rd graders.

My name is Jennifer Garcia. I am a Canadian teacher who has been working in El Salvador for the last 13 years. I currently teach ICT as well as run the new Learning Resources Centre. This past year our staff and students have taken to digital projects in a big way and we hope to continue expanding our digital toolboxes. I first became interested in Scratch about a year ago when I received information about it in an email. Unfortunately, I never got much further than downloading the software. This coming school year we are hoping to make Scratch a part of our ICT curriculum in at least one grade from 6th to 8th, and later bring it into other grades in the school. I really look forward to learning how to use Scratch myself as well as gain a better idea of how to use it with students to enhance their learning. Our school is very excited about the prospect of bringing Scratch in and I am hopeful that these two workshops will help us to do it really well.

Hi Cindy, I"m working on a Scratch-based project that includes staff from the Memphis Public Library. They've been running a range of programs with Scratch at the Central Library. Please email me off list if you would like to be in touch with those staff. Jennifer jrnelson@hclib.org

