Iridescent Learningis establishing a new program in Boston called Family CS. The program's goal is to engage elementary aged students and their families with Computer Science using Scratch. They have a part-time position opening for a Family CS Program Assistant.You can learn more about the program below or at http://iridescentlearning.org/programs/familycs About Iridescent Iridescent is a group of tinkerers and teachers who believe that children need to be curious,courageous and persistent to succeed in life. We believe that acquiring a strong knowledge basein science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) is the door out of a life of poverty. Ourprimary focus is helping underserved and at risk K-12 children and their parents gain access tothe education, skills and training needed be a successful scientist, inventor, and entrepreneur.Our programs develop the curiosity to ask, the courage to plunge and the persistence to achieve.We work closely with scientists and engineers to communicate their knowledge and passion tochildren using hands-on design projects. Over the past 6 years, we have worked with400 scientists and engineers and reached more than 16,000 children and parents in Los Angeles, New York City, Boston, Chicago and the Bay Area. About Family Computer Science (CS) Family Computer Science is a program recently established in Boston, MA. This is a series ofproject based sessions that bring computer science to children and their entire families. Theworkshops will use project-based activities to engage the families and teach them basics ofprogramming logic. This program aims to: Leverage the high motivation and interest families have in their childs education andensure that families are empowered to continue the learning at home. Encourage persistent curiosity in learning and courage Empower the participants to express themselves using technology becoming designersand builders, not just consumers. About the Position We have an immediate opening in Boston for a Family CS Program Assistant. The programassistant will help in growing and supporting the Family CS program. This is a part-timeposition and requires working on some evenings at a specified location, otherwise work hoursand location is flexible. The responsibilities include: Familiarizing yourself with Scratch Developing new lessons, and improving existing lessons. Teaching a 2-hr/week workshop series. Oversee program operations Job Requisites BA/BS degree (science or related field is a plus) Experience working with and engaging youth Teaching experience Ability to speak Spanish is a plus To apply Send your resume and cover letter to Tahani@iridescentlearning.org with "Family CS Program Assistant"in the subject line Please answer the following: Describe an engaging lesson plan and Scratch activity How would you ensure the engagement of all family members in the activities? Describe how you would handle a class where the audience seems disengaged or confused?

