Thanks to everyone who attended the March 2014 Scratch Educator Meetup!Here is a list of participants and some resources from the event: Attendees Below is a list of people who attended: Joel Bacal Sarah Bilodeau Eric Boehlke Derek Breen Aneeka Cheema Janet Dee Sandra Flanagan Steve Gordon Angela Green Ingrid Gustafson Rupal Jain Lorraine Leo Mary Sue Lindley Karen Manning Benadette Manning Bruce McBrien Barbara Mikolajczak Dan Monihan Louisa Monihan Natalie Paine Rory Phimister L Savarese Adam Scharfenberger Debbie Slade Rosemary Slattery Alina Spaulding Ben Stumpf Dave Suchy Selim Tezel Daniel Watt LeeAnn Wells Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Jeff Hawson To connect with someone from the meetup, click on their name above and leave a message on their profile page to start a conversation. Recap What's Your Question?- The day started with mingling over breakfast and coffee. Then, participants in a circle to give introductions and discuss the plan for the day. Karen and Michelle framed the introductory session around the prompt: "What questions have you brought to the meetup?". Scheduling Sessions - Derek, Ingrid, Janet, and LeeAnn volunteered to organize the agenda based on ideas shared by participants on sticky notes. The final schedule comprised ofsix sessions held over two forty-minute blocks. Breakout Sessions - Duringthe first group of breakout sessions, Rosemary facilitated a hands-onintroductory Scratch session, while Janet led a discussion around professional development and Derek hosted an interactive session to ideate next steps for intermediate and advanced Scratch users (thanks Ingrid for taking and sharingnotes of the discussion!). After 40 minutes, we switched to the second set of sessions, starting with Steve and Rory hosting a conversation about assessment and standards, Ingrid sharing some of her favorite ideas for integrating Scratch with other subjects, and LeeAnn gathering with other educators to come up with new Scratch project ideas. Meetup Message Board- After two rounds of breakout sessions, we gathered all together one last time fordelicious DIYChipotle lunchand to share announcements using a meetup message board-- plus a surprise demo from Louisa!. Photos- March 2014 Meetup photoscan be found on Flickr. Announcements Scratch@MIT 2014 Conference early registration is now available. - http://scratch.mit.edu/conference Digital Media and Learning (DML) Conference is taking place in Boston, March 6-8. - http://dml2014.dmlhub.net Next Scratch Educator Meetup is on Saturday, April 5, 2014. - https://2013-2014scratchmeetups.eventbrite.com The first StarLogo TNG meetup will take place after the Scratch Educator Meetup on April 5, 2-4pm. - http://education.mit.edu/projects/starlogo-tng We hope to see you at the next meetup!

