Mast STEM Academy is a leading institution in China providing STEM courses through project based learning approach for grade 2-7 kids. We conduct enrichment programs on various levels of basic Sciences( Math, Chemistry, Physics and Biology) and Engineering (Robotics, Electronics, Programming, Animation, 3D Modelling and Printing, Drones and Game Development). We invite top notch STEM educators around the world teaching and motivating kids to get interested in these areas during our winter and summer camps in major Chinese cities such as Shanghai and Shenzhen . The current opening is for a Scratch teacher to teach Grade 2- Grade 4 kids inSpring 2018( two weeks)and Summer 2018 (Six Weeks)camps. Hours: 9:00am _ 4:00pm job responsibilities: - Develop course unit plan and do research on topic before the camp start with details that explain methods used to implement the course goals and objectives. Participate in before camp marketing event on-line or through mobile apps. - set up class materials or kits, convey key STEM concepts to school students, answer student questions while maintaining student interest and engagement, provide valuable feedback back on students, courses and content - Keep detailed and accurate records of your student's performance, including class participation, skills mastered, insightful questions or comments, and strengths or weaknesses . - Construct final academic assessment of each student before the last day of program in an appropriate tone, detail and personalization. Skills Required - (Must have): - At least Three years of teaching experience as STEM teacher. - Need to be highly motivated, independent, detail oriented and have the capacity and patience required to run a size of less than 20 kids class - Hands on project building knowledge in one of following: mathematics, science and technology or Programming - Enjoy thinking outside the box - Have rapport with children between Gr.2-4 - Be goal-oriented and self driven - Work independently with little guidance To apply - send your latest resume and availability to (zhengma@maststem.com) Compensation: - All travel and lodging expense are paid as well Visa application fee. - $1500 per week as the base plus discretionary bonus at the end of Camps. Location: The work location will be in Shanghai/Shenzhen ,China

