Hello Scratchers, Introducing myself, Inge. I've worked with Lifelong Kindergarten for a number of years, mostly with Computer Clubhouse organizations all over the world. And with Scratch, too. I'll be the new Scratch Day organizer and I'm looking forward to working with all of you who are planning Scratch Day events. Scratch Day this year will be May 18, 2013. Please bear with me while I update the Scratch Day website. I am eager to hear your questions, comments, and suggestions.

Thanks, Ingeborg! Please let us know when we can add our events to the website. One suggestion I've had over the past 2 years about both this and the Scratch Day website is that they really need to accept cookies, the way the regular Scratch website does. There has also been a chronic issue with password setting. It is a big drag having to log in each time I visit and even worse, reset my password every time I want to log in. Is there some way you can work with whomever manages the regular Scratch site to get some similar backend programming going on? That would be very helpful. Thanks for taking on Scratch Day 2013! Warm regards, Alfia

Thanks for your suggestions, Alfia. I will definitely look into that.

Hello; Thanks for your message. Since May 18 is the Saturday of an important long weekend in Canada, we've been working on promoting February 22 (1 week from tomorrow) as Scratch Day Canada (as part of Canadian Computing Education Day - http://www.CanCompEd.ca). We're excited and hopeful about connecting with lots of current scratchers in Canada and making lots of new ones too! Best regards, Daryl

Hi Inge, best of luck with World Scratch Day project. Loved last year's ballons. I'm hoping to host a open 'drop in' session here in Galway, Ireland, so having something that's quick and easy for students to tap into and post onto stage would be great. Kind regards, Justine

Hi Justine, It's great to hear that Scratch will be celebrated in Galway! Have you created a profile and an event description on the Scratch Day site?day.scratch.mit.edu/ We'll look for news of your event there. Inge

If you haven't already noticed, the resources on the Scratch Day website have been updated for 2013. It's not too early to download posters and invitations. Best of luck! Inge

Thanks very much Inge. Just filled up the form !! Will keep an eye on discussion section for more updates. Kind regards, Justine

