Hi everyone, On the first day, you wrote about what you hoped to accomplish during your time here at the workshop. Now that we're halfway through the event, let's do a mid-point review to help us think about what we've done -- and what we might want to add or change. Think about your initial goal(s).Please respond to the following 2 sets of questions: In what way(s) have you made progress on these goals?What aspects of the workshop have been helpful? What else do you need to achieve the goals you initially set? Have new goals emerged? That is, are there other things that you haven't done or learned or explored yet that you really want to do before the end of the workshop? Sincerely, Karen, on behalf of the Creative Computing organizing team

I'm still looking for something in the way of curriculium/lesson plans/projects that I can use to get started in the fall. Additionalgoal is to build up contacts of others to share stuff with.

The Creative Computing Workshop has been everything that was expected and more to this point. I've learned how to employ several features in Scratch that Iwas not even aware of to this point. Moreover, I've generated ideas of how Imight use these to assist students. The hands-on approach to the workshop has been extremely influential in generating ideas to use in the classroom as well as in professional development workshops. They have also provided great approaching to teaching and learning Scratch. New goals have emerged because of the workshop. With the New Jersey Core Curriculum Content Standards set to change in September 2012. I see a clear opportunity to utilize Scratch in achieving new objectives outlined by the state. These goals cannot be fulfilled before the end of the workshop but are certainly worthwhile.

I feel that I have completely achieved my goal thus far. I wanted to become more familiar with Scratch soI could provide professional development for my school district. Iam sure there is so much more to learn, but I feel that Ihave a good foundation to build upon. The only thing I might be lacking is more ideas on how to incorporate scratch into other disciplines other than math & computer science. I would really love to learn how to make backgrounds scroll so Icould help students create more interactive projects.

The most useful thing I have learned so far is the "broadcast" block. This opens up a whole new set of ideas for me that I can use in my class. This was my primary goal in taking this course. New goals have not really emerged for me. I would be nice if we can do something with a pico board.

A big goal was to get better at Scratch and I do feel stronger. There is functionality I haven't worked with yet...specifically in the operating and variable blocks. I need to use them before end of course. I hope to feel clearer about how to incorporate Scratch into a non-technology course (math). I'm thinking it might be fun to do some problem posing through a Scratch project...might catch their attention. Also, I hope to use Scratch (if I can get computer lab or cart) the first week of school to develop the habits I want to refer to all year. Would love a conversation about ways to collaborate with tech staff so some of the early learning takes place outside the content class...

I have been able to meet people with the same focus as myself who do things differently. I have learned of other approaches to teaching programming that I can try.

I have already met my goal, to learn more about Scracth and learn some new strategies for getting young people excited about computing. All the activities we've done so far are ones I can use with my students and campers. Now I am looking forward to learning more about integrating art with Scratch and playing with the effects. I would also be really interested in playing with the Pico boards and Lego, integrating Scratch with external devices.

My original goal was to gain confidence in using Scratch, thus allowing me to work with students and teachers back home. I have made progress in terms of learning more and feeling comfortable in the program. However, I am still looking forward to more Scratch time :) The introduction to each activity has been very helpful for me. I have learned to watch the demos carefully, try new things, and ask questions. One project I loved was the partner/switch work. We started a story, moved over to another, and finished with a third. Very cool idea, lots of benefits. My new goal is to create more than animation. I want to learn how to make my work interactive. Perhaps a game. Maybe today. And gee, maybe I'll think about getting/using a Picoboard like Larry :)

I feel like I have accomplished my goal. I am not very comfortable with programming but this gave me an opportunity to dive in and become more familiar with the language and tools.

I think my initial goals have been met. I think I can integrate Scratch into my curriculum in a way that will interest students. My new goal will be to see how I can get Scratch to work with Lego robotics kits.

One goal was to interact with many different people and share our teaching ideas and experiences. I have truly enjoyed doing that. The shared story activity really helped with that. It's awsome that we have our discussion link so we can continue exchanging ideas with each other. My other goal, (more lofty) is to develop some concrete plans for professional development. I have two ideas I want to work on: 1) to have a workshop (or playshop) in which teachers are encouraged to bring their own children regardless of age and my programming students help me facilitate the experience. My students are already eager to do this with me. I need to get a structure to it. 2) based on what was suggested last night, I wnat to create a project that truly meets our school wide technology standard.

I've definitely got some materials I can use in my classroom now. The ScratchEd website is a great resource.Thanks for the cards. I've learned a lot about using Scratch through you and my peers. I hope to continue learning more about using Scratch as we continue. Thanks for the opportunity!

I like the term "playshop."

I have progressed towards my goals so far - I've learned quite a few new elements of Scratch that open up new possibilities for me. My goal for the remainder of the session is to collaborate with my colleagues in designing a unit for our 3rd grade.

I have definitely become more knowledgeable about Scratch, I have learned so much about different programming aspects.I like the broadcast function. Ihaven't tried the operatorsyet and I would like to think of more uses for the pen. I have found the collaboration to be very helpful and inspiring. I am still looking to get more ideas for projects for elementary age kids and how to put together some simple lesson plans.

One of my goals was to have an opportunity to interact with other professionals to learn different activities to use with Scratch. I have learned a great deal up to this point and I plan to continue connecting today and tomorrow. Even though I have been using Scratch in my classroom already, I have learned many new techniques that I wasn't aware of! Thank you!

I came here to be inspired while Icreate an entire new K-5 technology curriculum for my district. I am definitely inspired. I am really excited for the breakout sessions as a group of us have been discussing talking about using the WeDo, Mindstorms etc... opening up an entire new world for me.

I've definitely deepened my knowledge of the "workings" of Scratch through the collaboration and sharing activities. Beyond that, and perhaps more importantly, I've gotten some terrific ideas for how to embed Scratch into curriculum in meaningful ways AND I've seen some great examples of lessons/activities/ I can do to introduce Computational Thinking to my students. I feel like I'm definitely on my way to achieving the goals Iset the first day. I'm not sure if I can consider this a "new goal" or not, but I've changed my perspective on how I think Scratch should be used. I think I was struggling with the idea of creating projects that were open-ended enough to allow students to work at their strengths and interests, YET have enough rigor to use as assessment. Now, I am looking at things differently and realize that I don't have to take on so much of the responsibility and I can focus on the process for assessment and allow students to choose content. I'm still working through this new thought...and look forward to clarifying it even more over the next few days. Sandi

It has been a great workshop! My first goal was meet. Amazing people doing fantastic work, is what I have seen so far. One thing I'm taking back into my classroom is the "role playing" activity to demonstrate the use of the Broadcast tool. I can see my students getting into it!

Mygoal was to learn more aboutscratch so I would be able to re-work some projects that we have curriculum projects in microworlds, so our older students have an opportunity to become more experienced in scratch. The chance to connect with other teachers and learn about their uses and wishes for scratch in their classroom is invaluable. I believe both of these goals are being met.

I am still working on a personal project that shows students the hurdles that they might encounter in life. The project will show the 3 different ways children and adults approach and handle these hurdles. I hope to have at least 4 different scenes. There are still a lot of things that I have not used, but that is because I never really used Scratch till this year. I am looking forward to doing more. I feel that i am always trying to catch-up I am teaching this summer and I am anxious to try this out in our summer school/camp for the final weeks of the year. I like the part where I will be able to upload there work as a group.

Yes John, I agree. The Broadcast & Receive commands are awesome and helpful!

I'm getting a better feel for Scratch every day and enjoy learning new techniques every day.Collaborative atmosphere ishelpful and fun.Thanks! I wonderhow Scratch handlessuch CS ideas as findingthe max value in a list or sorting a listof values

It's great to have had longer stretches for using Scratch than in the past. I have a better feel for what it takes to program and this will serve me well in understanding what kids at my school have already been introduced to. Also, I'm a little more confident in thinking I can better think about integrating into a collaborative project between Art, Tech and Language that already exists. I'm even thinking about using it in Music class for kids to illustrate form. I would like to learn more about the music portion of Scratch. From what I've seen so far it doesn't seem intuitive, but I'd love to be proven wrong!

The workshop has been extremely informative and fun! I found the style of introducing each session with human volunteers to mirror the goals needed to achieve in programming extremely helpful in solidifying the flow of ideas. I came to this workshop with the hope of getting indepth knowledge of Scratch to use with my Middle School students and I find that along with that I am also learning useful techniques on how to guide students through the process of computational thinking. What I need to do next is put some lesson plans in place for the next academic year.

My goal was to be inspired. I've definitely been exposed to some great ideas that will keep me thinking for a while. I've enjoyed the variety of activities: in addition to the specifically Scratch-focused training, I loved the tour and the panel discussion. I would love to hear Mitch, Karen, Michelle and Amanda describe their visions of "what schools could/should look like," and also learn about innovative or "model" schools they they are aware of. I'd like us to think ahead about ways for all of the participants and facilitators to continue to collaborate in the future. One suggestion would be to make it easier to identify workshop participants on the ScratchEd site. I also want to make time to learn and explore possibilities with the PicoBoard. I'll probably do this during the independent project time and/or the game time. I agree that "broadcast/receive"are very useful commands. I'd be interested to learn about other commands that I may not yet be familiar with. I'm enjoying the opportunity to be here. Larry

The modeled learning activities have been helpful in learning both the basics programming steps of Scratch as well as powerful command like 'broadcast'. My goal of learning more of the advanced commands (operations and variables) would be helpful. It has been very helpful meeting K-12 teachers from various parts of the country listening to their ideas about using Scratch and education. One new goal is to find out how to 'best' organize a gallery where k-5 students can post work so that it can be viewed or found in quick manner (within a district with multiple schools or within a school with many class sections on a grade level) Your modeling has provided new teaching strategies for me. Thank you.

Scratch is a tool that I have wanted to spend some time considering and this workshop has perfectly provided time for this endeavor. I thoroughly enjoy the format of the conference. The role play activities are all fun, applicable beyond the Scratch classroom, and are highly likely to appear in various places in my courses, club activities and community outreach. One very clear idea has emerged for me. I would love to offer an afternoon program using Scratch at my daughter's elementary school. Another clear application of Scratch would be for my school's annual bookday. On bookday the mission is for faculty, students and invited guests to create an array of workshops centered around the themes of a book chosen by a student and faculty committee. My computer science club is known for devising creative and fun workshops. In the past the club has used Alice and Greenfoot for example. My curricular goal of deciding whether Scratch is a good fit for our introductory and middle division programs is also being met. I am convinced Scratch would be a very effective tool and will encourage the members of my department to adopt Scratch.

Two of my initial goals were to become more comfortable with Scratch in general and to develop project ideas & resources. All of these goals have been met. I'm feeling really excited about bringing these ideas back to my students. One of my additional goals is to develop an assessment process for an open-ended scratch project. I am thinking about how I can bring students into the process of deciding what makes a superior quality scratch project by watching projects on the website and then discussing the projects that really stood out and why. I do want to have my own ideas as well about what my expectations need to be in terms of learning outcomes as well.

I had a goal of learning enough about Scratch and from other teachers to be able to teach it. I have definitely made a lot of progress on this goal. I'm now hoping to get a pico board to explore the extensions to Scratch.

In what way(s) have you made progress on these goals?What aspects of the workshop have been helpful? What else do you need to achieve the goals you initially set? By participating in the hands-on activities, I have been able to think of how I will bring them back to my classroom. Last night's panel discussion introduced me to a new software, Tale Blazers, which I hope Iwill be able to use. Have new goals emerged? That is, are there other things that you haven't done or learned or explored yet that you really want to do before the end of the workshop? I just want to learn more, more, more..... to bring back. I am trying to develop my course.

So far I have been pleasantly invigorated by all the sharing that the group members are doing. My goal was to become more proficient in using Scratch. Yesterday I sat next to Janet and she is far more advanced and was very helpful (also patient). I have gotten lots of good ideas and strategies for dealing with the introduction of technology into my classes. As an art teacher I mostly deal with hands on manipulation. I can see Scratch blending in nicely with combining several of the projects I already use. For example, making a sprite in Illustrator and then using it in Scratch (Illustrator sets the sprite on a transparent background so it works well with Scratch). I found a fantastic example of a scratch project developed by another person in the ScratchEd site called "Got Art". This person has generated a program that draws! It is fantastic!

Ihave met my goal in that I know that Iwant to use Scratch in my curriculum for both 8th graders and the Intro to CS course. Ihave thoroughly enjoyed learning so much about Scratch in such a short period of time. A second and not expected outcome of the workshop so far is getting ideas for activities to do with my class to introduce lessons. I really enjoyed the story telling activity and even the way that algorithmic thinking has been play acted in this workshop. I use role playing in my classroom for concepts such as recursion and sorting and searching. The workshop has given me additional ideas that I can use for teaching CS in any of my courses. Iwould like to learn how to make games in Scratch. I can probably muddle thru it now but Iam looking forward to learning how others use Scratch to make games. My students are very drawn to any language in which they can write games.

I feel I have meet my goals to learn more about how to introduce Scratch. There is no easy way and monitoring students and their needs is a way to learn more. A new goal, I realize I need to focus more on of the more difficult progam techniques to add challenging tasks for the go faster students.

I had imagined this workshop to be strictly focused on Scratch programming and so I came here just hoping to see how I can create activities or games with the students in my school. However, being introduced to the panelists last night and the tour of the MIT lab has made me think of other kinds of possibilities. I hope to create a write up of all the resources and ideas that have come out of what I learned these days to folks in my professional learning network (PLN). I think there's a lot of folks that I know that are doing interesting things in their schools and don't know of the wonderful resources coming from MIT. So my new goal is not only to work in my school with Scratch and what I've learned here, but to spread the wealth of information with my PLN. One thing I would like to do is to continue the digital conversation of sharing tips, tricks, and scratch programming files.

My goal was to be able to implement computational thinking and programming into the middle school computer curriculum. I have made progress by being provided with insight on how to use scratch in a more advanced way, as well as ideas for projects and activities. The skits, which Ive very surprised to admit, were helpful. The skits provided me with ideas on how to illustrate parallelism. No new goals have emerged.

My goal was to see how Scratch might fit into my third grade engineering initiative. The implications of using Scratch to help teach the engineering design process are obvious. My new goal is to sort out a framework for teaching a trimester-long unit on engineering with Scratch. How do I balance giving enough support to those that need it without stifling those who will thrive from open-ended projects? I'm thinking about starting with the basics of Scratch, perhaps using those flash cards and a simple starter activity. I'll likely incorporate some of the fun lessons demonstrated over the past couple of days (having kids act out commands as sprites!). That could be followed up with some loosely-defined goals, as we did here. i.e. Make a dance party. Then we can move to a culminating project that is much more open-ended. Maybe kids can make proposals for their projects before beginning. That way I can offer guidance for those who do not have a clear goal yet, while staying out of kids' way if they don't need me. Any suggestions would be fantastic... I'd love to hear your ideas.

Hi Larry, I too am very interested in exploring the PicoBoard and how I can use that in conjunction with science. I would like to be able to recommend using the PicoBoard for the 4th-7th grader science projects. Is this something you would be interested in too?

So I arrived late and haven't had the time to write down what my goals were for Scratch. I want to be able to use Scratch commands seamlessly so that I do not have to constantly debug. What else that has been useful is seeing how others have debugged code that make it easier for me when I come across the same problem. I learned about the "hide" and "show" functions which have made it 25% easier! My new goals are to see how creative I can really get with Scratch!

My initial goal was to develop some very specific activities to support my classroom content standards, mostly ELA. I've been able to come up with ideas for demonstration/teaching, expression/student creation, and assessment. I still want to explore how Scratch can be used with Lego Mindstorms and also use a Pico board. Also, I have no idea how to use variables or lists.

My initial goal was to become more comfortable using Scratch and have a better understanding of it's capabilities. Wow. Woke up this am with my head exploding with project ideas. Moving forward, I want to be more comfortable using variables. I also wondered if you can imbed a projct within a project.

My goals were to feel comfortable enough to share Scratch with my colleagues and students and to look at Scratch with robotics. Through the exercises with and without Scratch I DO feel comfortable to introduce Scratch to help people move forward in their creativity. I realize my goal is to help teachers see how they can integrate technologies, as an educator, that i am comfortable with, and you have provided us with so many tools. I have had some exciting conversations this morning with the people at the peach table about robotics. I believe we are getting together this afternoon to share what we know, what we don't know, and what we want to know.

I feel that I am on my way towards accomplishing my goals. I am happy to have the opportunity to learn with other teachers, to hear what they are doing in their classrooms, their experiences with Scratch and their plans for the future. I no longer feel that I am alone. I feel that Ihave a commuinity of professionals that I can bounce ideas of off,and go to if (and when) I encounter problems. I have also really enjoyed the learning activities that Mitch and Karen have shared with us. I can't wait to try these out with my students. They really seem to encourage conversation and thinking, which would be great for my students. It is amazing how you can learn "computational thnking skills" that don't always require using the computer. I also can't wait to work on my own project. I look foward to the next two days to see what other wonderful new skills Ican learn.

I'd also like to hear about plans for future versions of Scratch--what will be included?

Thanks for the class. It has been great. I reached my goal and had the opportunity to talk to other teachers about creating a Scratch advocacy group for elementary students that runs across the curriculum. We have the beginnings of a working plan that we will post. I am looking forward to implementing it. One thought is It would be helpful if the Scratch team could provide us with some names of administrators or policy types we could contact. My feelings are the more people we can contact the greater the chance of success. Thanks, Vicki

Sally, Ifeel the same way. This workshop has generated many new ideas to take back to school. I'm enthusiastic about implementing Scratch more in the future.

I couldn't agree more Stacy. Ifeel that when I walked in her Iknew about 1% of scratch and had 0% of methods to integrate into my class. Now, I truly feel that I can use Scratch efficiently & effectively in my classroom and help other teachers do the same.

Maria, I used the List in Scratch to hold a list of words and created a bubble sort. I can show it to you. Paul

I agree with Larry about wanting to connect with other participants on ScratchEd. It's been a great few days and it'd be nice to hear how everyone's use of Scratch develops with their students over the next school year and beyond.

Thanks. I think it fits.

Thank you for a wonderful, creative, and information training session. It was more than I had hoped it to be! I really enjoy having the mini-sessions yesterday so we could pick what was most meaningful for me. I also am still collecting lesson plan and project ideas.

