We sent the latest ScratchEd newsletter out this morning... ScratchNotes A seasonal newsletter for the Scratch educator community Winter 2011 Volume 2, Issue 2 Announcing Monthly Scratch Educator Meetups At MIT Want to learn more about Scratch? Want to meet other Scratcheducators and share ideas? Join us at the MIT Media Lab on the thirdSaturday of each month (starting February 19) for a Scratch EducatorMeetup. To register or for more information, please visit the ScratchEvents site. http://events.scratch.mit.edu/ Announcing Scratch Educator Webinar Series Learn more about Scratch and chat with other educators from thecomfort of your computer in our new webinar series. These onlineseminars will be held on the fourth Monday of each month at 7pm EST(starting January 24). For more information, please visit the ScratchEvents site. http://events.scratch.mit.edu/ Keep Updated With Notifications! New Features On ScratchEd Happy New Year! We're kicking off 2011 with upgrades to the ScratchEdonline community. It's now easier than ever to subscribe and receivenotifications via email about new content that appears on the site.Check out this video that explains how. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/node/8785 December 2010 Scratch Educator Meetup Last month, we hosted a workshop for educators. More than 30educators from diverse teaching backgrounds and disciplines cametogether to learn Scratch and discuss teaching strategies. Thanks toeveryone who attended. If you were unable to be there, check out thevideo -- and we hope to see you at the next meetup! http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/mit-scratch-educator-meetup Scratch At SIGCSE, March 9-12 Scratch will be well represented in workshops, papers, panels andposter sessions at the annual SIGCSE (ACM Special Interest Group onComputer Science Education) Conference in Dallas. If you are planningto attend, check out the list of Scratch-related offerings. See youthere! http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/celebrate-csed-week-scratched WiSE Workshop For High School Girls A group of 12 high school students and 9 undergraduate mentors fromthe WiSE (Women in Science and Engineering) program at MIT joined usfor an introductory Scratch workshop. We designed the workshop arounda dance party theme and danced the afternoon away. See what happenedin this video. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/csed-week-day-4-wise-dance-party Save The Date: Scratch Day Webinar On Feburary 28 Scratch Day (May 21, 2011) is a worldwide network of gatherings,where people come together to meet other Scratchers, share projectsand experiences, and learn more about Scratch. Join us on February 28for a webinar about how to host your own gathering. For moreinformation, visit the Scratch Events site. http://events.scratch.mit.edu/ Follow Us On Twitter Apparently the bird was just too hard for the Scratch cat to resist.Follow ScratchEdTeam on Twitter and be the first to know about thelatest stories, resources, and discussions from the website, as wellas upcoming events. http://twitter.com/ScratchEdTeam

Hi Karen A little bit of frustation, no big deal though but... I have to be a nightowl (start 1.00 am in Sweden) to participate in the webinars. Or maybe I am living on the wrong side of the world ;). So I hope you record the session so I can see them after the webinar. Otherwise.... its a nice step to something very interesting. :)

Hi Anders, My apologies -- we really struggled to find a time that worked for a lot of people. As with everything, we're approaching this iteratively, and I could imagine the webinar time being changed. In the interim, all of the webinars are being recorded and will be shared online the next day. Sincerely, K

