Last Saturday was the first Scratch Educator Meetup of 2013! Check outsome notes from the event shared below. Attendees Below is a list of people who attended the meetup on Saturday: Derek Breen Janet Dee Megan Haddadi Lorraine Leo Doug McGlathery Barbara Mikolajczak Emily Miranda Angela Puccini Matthew Puma Denise Robinson Gillian Rondinone Rosemary Slattery Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Jeff Hawson Laura Johnson Roshi Razavi To connect with someone from the meetup, click on their name above to leave a message on their profile page. Recap Meet up with Me:New Year's Resolutions - As participants arrived at the MIT Media Lab, we asked them to fill out a networking handout to help get to know one another. This month's topic was new year's resolutions. Introductions -Karen facilitated introductions by having people share their names, familiarity with Scratch, and what they did for the holiday season. Breakout Sessions -After some group brainstorming, twohands-on breakout session topics emerged. Laura and Michelle facilitated a"Getting Started with Scratch and WeDo" sessionfor those who were interested in learning more about usingScratch with the LEGO WeDo, andKaren led a design challenge in Scratch 2.0 based on a Space Invaders game recently shared online. Show & Tell - While enjoyingChipotle takeout for lunch, attendees were given the opportunity for Show & Tell. Derek gave us an update on the human anatomy simulator he started building at last month's meetup, Janet talked about the upcoming Computer Science Teachers Association (CSTA) conference taking place this summer in Quincy, MA, and Megan demonstrated some of her students' WeDo projects for those who attended the Scratch and WeDo breakout session. You can watch the Show & Tell videos on ScratchEd. Group Discussion - At the end of the meetup, the group shared ideas for conducting an introductory Scratch session with students and tips for talking to parents about Scratch. Click on the links to view the notes. Photos- Check out our Flickr page to viewphotosfrom the meetup. Do you have any reflections, questions, or suggestions about the meetup? Please share them as a comment below. We hope that you'll join us at the next Scratch Educator Meetup on Saturday, February 9. Registration is available athttp://2012-2013meetups.eventbrite.com.

There is a Greater Boston CSTA Chapter Meeting & PD Workshop scheduled for this Saturday, January 26, from 12:30 - 3:00 pm. The location is WMass Lowell, North Campus Olsen Hall, Room 311. For more information go to the chapter's googlegroups website: http://goo.gl/o1g8B

