Intro Scratch Workshop and Meetup for Educators Saturday, December 11, 2010 10am-1pm What can you create with Scratch? In this three-hour BYOL (Bring Your Own Laptop) workshop for educators, we will: explain the core ideas underlying Scratch guide you through a set of hands-on activities share strategies for integrating Scratch into classroom practice introduce you to ScratchEd, a companion website where educators share their Scratch ideas, experiences, and resources The workshop is open to all Boston-area educators, including those that have no previous Scratch experience. We particularly encourage educators from the same school, program, etc. to attend together as a group. Registration is limited to 40 people. The workshop is free and includes lunch. Need more information? Want to RSVP? Email us at: workshops(at)scratch.mit.edu Register online athttps://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=dFctQ0plaGFvVWEwVXlLdVpkcTlSN3c6MQ

I would be nice if the Workshop/Meetup should be streamed with bambuser or some other videostreaming possibility....to the rest of the world... :)

Hi Anders, In 2011, we're going to be doing a series of webinars. :) Thanks, K

Hi Karen, Yes... thats good news. :)

I'm fairly experienced with using Scratch grades 1-5. I'd be happy to help out by showing some of the things I do, or by helping a group of less experienced teachers. Thanks for offering this opportunity, and I'm looking forward to meeting others using Scratch at the elementary level.

Sorry for the last minute posting, but my agenda for todays class just changed, because I am pleased to announce that Thursday I received permission to use Scratch in my High School Object Oriented Programming Class. In the OO class, we program in Java an Asteroid game. Next year I am thinking about preceding the full-blown Java version of the Asteroid game with a Scratch version that concentrates on the geometry of the moving spaceship. Daniel Green has kindly posted an excellent explanation of how the geometry works, and how to present it in Scratch. With that said, I am just starting to think about how I can use Scratch with High School students, so I am open to all suggestions.

I instruct a multlevel (2-8) technology enrichment course at St. Joan of Arc School in Hershey, PA. We use Scratch, Alice and Interactive C (with Handyboards) as our primary platforms. Scratch is the dominant platform. We typically have the students look at a couple of classic video games (asteroids, pong) and vote on which one they want to program. We then work with them to decompose the game into functions and we ask them to suggest how they would solve that function. It often takes many sessions to get a game together. We have experimented with different lengths of sessions, different mixes of technologies (e.g. programming versus hands-on experiments), etc. I'm interested in helping teachers in southeastern Pennsylvania integrate innovative tools into their STEM curriculum. My main reason for attending here is to a) make contacts and b) see how you go about teaching the teachers.

At the Scratch Media Labs course yesterday, I was working with a teacher who was unable to create a recursive sorting algorithm due to Scratch's limitations. Today I came across an article on Scratch Building Blocks on teaching recursion with Scratch BYOB at http://www.nutt.net/2010/03/06/teaching-recursion-with-scratch-byob/ . Perhaps this article will help. I too will be looking into Building Blocks for my own class-work. I want to use Scratch as a tool where students can learn/play with the difficult object oriented concepts that they will need to use in their Java programming. It was a great class and I'm looking forward to having the time to play around with building blocks. Thanks, Vicki

