Thanks to everyone who was able to join us on Saturday for our first Scratch educator meetup of the school year! We're thrilled to be offering them again this year -- and look forward to future meetups with you Here are some lists, videos, and links from Saturday's session... Attendees Here's a list of people who attended Saturday's meetup: Ingrid Gustafson Steven Heath Jay Kloppenberg Tom Kowalczyk Bobby Lockhart Paul Marlier Jake McGaw Sonal Patel Prathima Rhodes Rosemary Slattery Jean Sorensen Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Gracie Elqura Mylo Lam Aaron Morris To connect with people you met, you can leave messages on people's profiles or use ScratchEd's direct messaging feature. If you aren't "linked", sign up for a ScratchEd account, post a comment below, and we'll update the list to point to your profile page. Check out this video to learn more about how to configure your subscriptions and notifications. Show & Tell Videos of the Show & Tellpresentations are available online. Ingrid shared the work that she's been doing with her Scratch Club. Check out her Moodle siteand watch her as a Scratch@MIT 2010 keynote speaker. Rosemary and Aaron shared a rubric they developed during the meetup for the Pass-it-on activity from the new Scratch curriculum guide.Rosemary mentioned some of the work her students have been doing, which you can learn more about from a previous meetup. Resources New curriculum guide draft Scratch cards Getting started webinar Future Events Next meetup: Saturday, November 5, 10am to 1pm Next webinar: Exploring the Scratch Website - Wednesday, November 30 at 7pm Scratch intro workshop: Saturday, October 29, 8:30am to 12:30pm What a great start to the school year! We look forward to meeting up with you again! Karen and Michelle on behalf of the ScratchEd Team

You can view pictures taken during the October Meetup onFlickrathttp://www.flickr.com/photos/38090850@N08/sets/72157627693392383/. If you have photos from the meetup you'd like to share, join the Scratch Educator Meetups Flickr Group!

