Thanks to everyone who attended the September ScratchEd-Cambridge meetup! Here is a list of participants and some resources from the event: Attendees: Nina Araujo Derek Breen Chris Cahill Lee Cusack Sue Cusack Janet Dee Georgia Forbes Ingrid Gustafson Nicole Hart Derek Hogan Powell Kristie Noel Kuriakos Lorraine Leo Muazzez Lohmiller Chad McGowan Caroline Meeks Dan Monahan Natalie Paine Prathima Rhodes Adam Scharfenberger Rosemary Slattery Tim Smith Daniel Watt LeeAnn Wells Recap: Our first ever ScratchEd-Cambridge meetup was held at the Kennedy-Longfellow School in Cambridge. We met in the brand new Makerspace and spacious adjoining rooms. We kicked off the day with informal networking over coffee, bagels and fruit. Sue Cusack of the Lesley University/Kennedy-Longfellow Tech Project welcomed us to the space. Who are you? : Each attendee filled out a who am I poster with a self-portrait and three things about themselves. These were posted to a wall for all to see. We then organized into lines and did 3 minute one-on-one introductions with people we hadnt met. Agenda co-creating: The participants were challenged to co-create the schedule for the day by first, brainstorming ideas on idea stickies in small groups. Ingrid and Janet then rapidly grouped all the ideas and came up with our session topics for the day. Breakout Sessions: We had time for two 45 minute sessions with three topics in each. Rosemary led a game project for those interested in getting started with Scratch. Another group met around Math and Science ideas for Scratch and used Muazzezs project to look into how we can implement tallies using a counting variable. A third group worked with the WeDo kits building their own chain reaction based on the Scratch + Lego WeDo Chain Reaction video. Lunch Discussion: Ingrid shared the Creative Computing Curriculum Website. Janet shared some resources on ScratchEd including the Student Handbook for Scratch and ECS. Adam shared a WeDo demonstration from his breakout session. Announcements and Resources: Our Google+ Community is launched. Search ScratchEd-Cambridge MA Our schedule for the year is now set and posted to our Eventbrite page. We look forward to seeing you at our next ScratchEd -Cambridge Meetup on November 1, 2014.

