This year marks our fourth annual Creative Computing workshop, being heldAugust 8-11, 2012in collaboration with Google's CS4HS initiative. Over145 educators signed up for our participant raffle and 40 educators were selected to join us this summer at the MIT Media Lab. We're thrilled to announce the Creative Computing 2012 cohort: Franklin Abbott Andrew Alford Omar Ali Andrea Ange Martha Bowden Michael Brother Vonda Brown Pat Bucher Francisco Cervantes Margie Conklin Debbie Corleto Karie Ann Crowther Karen Eutemey Troy Flowers Mary Freitas Dana Fritzinger Linda George Judith Goldsmith-Karp Jim Greenlee Sue Heintz Sarah Johnson Joan Kane Debra Kessler John Knox Karen Locke Maria Marsicano Anna Nunez Elizabeth Perry Karen Redmond Theresa Rossi Barbara Sanchez Janet Schenden Todd Shattuck Kim Sivick Jean Sorensen Rose Truglio Karen Valente Andrea Vasquez Steve Wells Joy Wolfe Michelle Chung Mitch Resnick Abdulrahman Idlbi Francisco Cervantes

Can't wait to meet everyone next week! Sincerely, Michelle on behalf of the MIT Creative Computing Team

Thank you for setting this up - it is nice to see who will be attending. I also look forward to meeting everyone next Wednesday :-) Vonda

Counting the days. I'm so excited to attend. Also excited to network with educators from across the country.

When are most folks arriving?Iam flying in on Tuesday evening, and staying in Beacon Hill. I'd be up for a late dinner on Tuesday if anyone else is in town. Otherwise Iguess I'll see everyone on Wednesday! -JimG

Looking forward to our conference!

Getting more and more excited to meet everyone. Anyone else commuting from the south shore? I am in Bridgewater. Maybe we can carpool. Has anyone worked with or set up alibrary Scratch club? I am working with one for middle school students and would love to share ideas. Michael

I'm also looking forward to meeting everyone. I am flying in on Wednesday morning from Philadelphia...anyone else arriving at the airport on Wednesday anytime around 8 a.m.?  I have some time to kill before the first event at 5 pm on Wednesday, anyone want meet and check out the MIT campus? Kim

Can't wait. After attending the conference last week, I am looking forward to this session. I am not coming from far , only about 5 miles away in Medford where I teach grades 6-7-8, art and art tech. See you all wed.

Hello everyone, I am looking forward to meeting all of you Wednesday evening. Anybody else staying in a dorm? See you soon, Karen

Yes, I am staying in the dorms too :-) !!! Vonda

I will also be staying in the dorm. Iam flying in on Wednesday afternoon. Looking forward to a wonderful time!

Hello everyone. Now that my suitcase is packed, I am getting excited to arrive tomorrow. I am driving in from Long Island New York. I won't be staying in the dorms but am really happy to be going back to Boston.

I am also staying in a dorm. Looking forward to meeting and learning with everybody.

Really looking forward to Thursday morning. See you all then!

Glad to know I am in good company on campus - see you all soon

Anybody staying at the Hyatt?

