We are looking for someone to support our after-school Scratch and Scratch Jr. programs in Washington, DC. The programs currently meet from 3:30pm-4:45pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays for PK/K students and 1st/2nd graders. I'll copy the job decsrtiption below. We're interested in someone immediately, or potentially to begin working in January, 2016. Georgetown Day Schools Office of Auxiliary Programs seeks a Scratch and Scratch Jr. Programming instructor for its after-school enrichment classes. GDS Auxiliary Programs Mission:While participating in GDS Auxiliary Programs, children will explore, learn, and create through hands-on and interpersonal inquiry, gaining an appreciation for themselves, others, and the world. GDS Auxiliary Programs Team Members teach new skills and provide tools that enable children to develop into great people who strive to learn and understand, try new things, and care for others. Position Description:GDS After-School Programs seeks to hire instructors to teach enrichment classes that will challenge our students academically, physically, and artistically. In particular, we seek an individual skilled at working with PK-2nd grade students and able to teach Scratch and Scratch, Jr. computer programming to students of these age levels.Read the full class description online. Classes run for one semester (13_17 classes) for about an 1.25 hours per week and for children in two-grade increments (PK_K and 1st_2nd). Instructors must be enthusiastic and knowledgeable about ways to support learning through guided activities.The ability to provide rich, mission-aligned content and creative pedagogy, to establish authentic relationships, to work collaboratively with colleagues, and to place childrens interests and experiences at the heart of the classroom are essential components of the job. As a diverse, inclusive school devoted to preparing our students to live and work in an increasingly globalized and multicultural society, GDS is particularly interested in professionals with demonstrated interest and experience in working in such a school setting. This position reports to the After-School Program Director. Responsibilities include the following: Implement and/or develop lesson plans for a full seasons course in a timely manner, including submission of material requests, etc. Lead classes, ensuring that learning goals are met Arrive promptly and prepared for class Supervise snack at the start of each class Prepare a demonstration of mastery as a culmination to each session Ensure that students are learning in creative, hands-on, interactive, and age-appropriate ways Incorporate opportunities for students to collaborate, problem-solve, create Other duties as assigned Qualifications:The ideal candidate will have the following qualifications: Bachelors degree or equivalent professional experience in the subject area Must enjoy working with children and demonstrate good judgement in doing so Previous teaching experience Ability to think on ones feet Ability to work collaboratively Position Status:This is apart-time, hourly, non-exempt position with a desired start date of August 24 for staff training; classes begin September 9, 2015. Hours:3:30pm_4:45pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Pay: 25_35perclass,basedonexperience.Requiredtrainingpayableat25_35perclass,basedonexperience.Requiredtrainingpayableat15/hour. To Apply:Qualified applicants should submit a cover letter, resume and, a list of three references using ouronline application system. Applicants should also complete the online application athttp://www.gds.org/employment. Georgetown Day School does not discriminate on the basis of gender, age, marital status, race, religion national origin or ethnic origin or sexual orientation in the hiring or retaining of staff. In addition, GDS makes every effort to comply with all governmentally mandated regulations applicable to independent schools including, but not limited to, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1991.

