I want extend my appreciation to the entire Scratch team for this amazing gathering. This is the third time Ive had the privilege of attending. Each time my high expectations have been exceeded. Thank you all. I am full of new ideas that will enhance my teaching and send my students in new directions. Many of those new inspirations came from the presenters at the conference, but, true to the spirit of the Scratch community, many others came from conversations with my fellow participates. The congenial atmosphere that surrounds the conference does not just happen. We are together because we share a vision of learning and sharing that fosters big dreams in each of us. Each time I enter the Media Lab, my thoughts return to a night in the early 80s. I was working on a Masters Degree at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst, focusing on instructional applications of computers. One of my professors, Claus Schultz, drove a group of us to MIT to hear Seymour Papert speak. We arrived a little late; the room was filled to capacity. (Mitch, I think I remember you being there, working with him in a way that reminds me of the way I see you and Karen working together.) Of course we had all read MINDSTORMS and were eagerly introducing Logo to children. I remember leaving that lecture with the same sense of wonder and opportunity that I felt throughout this conference. I look forward to 2014

Hi Mary Ann, Thank you so much for sharing your reflections. It was wonderful to have you at the conference! Please keep in touch. It would be interesting to hear if what you experienced during the conference has helped your work back home. Michelle on behalf of the Scratch@MIT 2012 organizing team

Ditto! Part of my shared withdrawal is that I failed to get contact info from all the great people I met...is there a list of conference participants (preferably with email addresses) that I could check out? -Danielle

Me too!  I'm going to try and maintain the excitement and delight by trying out the new ideas. Thanks so much to all of you guys on the MIT team who allowed us to be kids again and have such a terrific experience. Pratibha

Pratibha -- wanted to make sure that you saw this tweet from Joek...

We've got the big list of participants on the conference site. But, unfortunately, since I didn't ask for permission to post email addresses, I can't add those....

Thanks Karen - I hadn't seen it but am thrilled to get it. Pratibha

