This issue of the ScratchNotes newsletter was sent out on February 14, 2014. ScratchNotes ?A seasonal newsletter for the Scratch educator community Winter 2014 Volume 5, Issue 1 Scratch@MIT 2014 Conference: August 6-9 Want to meet and learn with educators, researchers, developers, and other members of the worldwide Scratch community? Attend the Scratch conference August 6-9 at MIT in Cambridge, MA. Session proposals are due on February 15. Registration opens on March 1. http://scratch.mit.edu/conference Inaugural NYC Scratch Educator Meetup Building on the Boston-based Scratch educator meetups, CSNYC and the Code-to-Learn Foundation are starting meetups in New York City! Attend the inaugural meetup on Saturday, March 15 to learn and share about Scratch in the classroom. http://www.meetup.com/CSNYC-Education-Meetup/events/164516882 Scratch Educator Meetups in Boston Free Scratch educator meetups are scheduled for the first Saturday of the month on March 1, April 5, May 3, and June 7. Join the ScratchEd Team and other local educators to network, share ideas, and learn more about Scratch. Meetups are free, include lunch, and can count towards PDP points. https://2013-2014scratchmeetups.eventbrite.com 11,000 ScratchEd Members More than 11,000 educators have joined the ScratchEd online community since its launch in August 2009. An enormous thank you to everyone who has contributed to the growing ScratchEd community. Not a member yet? Join us on ScratchEd or check us out on Twitter at @ScratchEdTeam. http://scratch-ed.org Scratch at SIGCSE 2014 Planning to attend the annual SIGCSE (ACM Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education) Conference in March? In this special ScratchEd post, find out which sessions will include discussions about Scratch. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/scratch-sigcse-2014 Save the Date: Scratch Day 2014 is May 17 Scratch Day is a worldwide network of gatherings, where people come together to meet other Scratchers, share projects and experiences, and learn more about Scratch. In 2013, there were 188 events in 47 countries. What will your Scratch Day look like this year? http://day.scratch.mit.edu How was your Hour of Code? Did you participate in the Hour of Code event during CSEdWeek? What did you do for the event? What did you learn? In this Storify post, find out what other Scratch educators did -- and then share your Hour of Code experiences. Did you use ScratchEd resources? How can we improve them? Let us know! http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/csedweek2013 Learn to Program with Scratch Learn to Program with Scratch is a new book from No Starch Press that uses illustrations and explanations to teach computer science. Hands-on exercises encourage students to create games, build simulations, and more. Learn more about it in this ScratchEd discussion. http://www.nostarch.com/learnscratch

