Are you interested in conducting research related to Scratch? At the recent Scratch conference, there was a session for those interested in research related to Scratch. At the session, several people suggested continuing the discussion--and expanding to include others involved in Scratch-related research. So, please join the conversation! We could begin by introducing ourselves and the research we're conducting or interested in.

To get the introductions started... I'm a member of the Scratch DesignTeam in the Lifelong Kindergarten Group at MIT. I am also pursuing doctoral research in the Child Development department at Tufts on emotions and motivation. I am interested in research that can inform the design of Scratch 2.0 to better support youth learning--and to engage youth with diverse interests in creating projects. I'm excited about the research strand Yasmin Kafai and others have suggested to investigate learning trajectories in Scratch-- how youth learning with and use of Scratch changes over time.

Hi I'm Eliza Dresang and I'm a faculty member at the University of Washington Information School. For almost two decades now I've been interested in the information behavior of youth growing up digital. I loved being at the Scratch conference because I felt among 'kindred souls.' I am not conducting research at the moment with Scratch but I'm very interested in reserach anyone else is conducting. I'm working with doctoral student Kyungwon Koh, who suggested this discussion, and she will soon be embarking on part of her dissertation research with Scratch users. Right now I'm one degree removed.

Hi, my name is Kyungwon Koh, a doctoral candidate at School of Library and Information Studies in Florida State University. It was really nice meeting people at 2010 Scratch@MIT. My research interest areas include youth information behavior, information literacy, and library and information services and resources for youth in the digital age. I found Scratch to be an exemplary place to observe new and innovative youth information behavior--that is, the ways young people seek, evaluate, use, share, and create information to enhance learning or pursue personal and aesthetic growth in the digital age. As part of my dissertation research, I am investigating information-related behaviors of Scratchers and look forward to sharing what I'll find in the Scratch community! :-)

Hi everyone! I'm a member of the Scratch Team and a PhD student at the MIT Media Lab. I'm interested in the intersection of computer science and the social sciences (also known as social computing). As part of my research, I led the development of the Scratch website. I'm interested in analyzing the way people use the website to better understand how to design social systems to support amateur creativity.

Hi. I am Ai Boon Tan. I am interested in anything about Scratch and like Eliza I am interested in research anyone else is conducting. I am just a Scratcher, lifelong student and new teacher. I love to find out more about using Scratch as an educational and therapeutic tool - for motivation, for people with dementia, for engaging people or children with special needs, for art and poetry, for thinking... the list goes on. One day, it will be nice to do real research but for now, I just explore Scratch with my students and we are really loving it. : )

Hi im Amanda Wilson, ive recently graduated and my honours project focused on teaching children(age 8/9 years) about programming with Scratch (it also looked at the affective impact as well). I am now starting my phd which will be in the area of games based learning. I am interested in how Scratch fits in with the new Scottish curriculum for excellence and want to explore this more as it can be used for a variety of learning outcomes other than computing - maths/english/art to name some. I am also interested in the affective impact of Scratch - my honours project showed that Scratch was enjoyed week after week by the children in school and very rarely did anyone not enjoy a lesson. It also showed that the children did make some small steps in learning about programming, given my timescale I felt it was a great achievement as i only had 8 hours of lessons with them. I will at some point soon post my report onto the site or if anyone would like to read it please leave a message.

I'm Kylie Peppler, a faculty member in the Learning Sciences Program at Indiana University, Bloomington. My doctoral dissertation was supported by the Spencer Foundation to work with Dr. Yasmin Kafai at UCLA and focused on using Scratch as a platform for interactive media-art-making. We worked with the folks at the MIT Media Lab to develop and test the first versions of Scratch at an after-school center, called the Computer Clubhouse, in South Los Angeles. Originally, Scratch was designed for the Computer Clubhouse Network to engage youth in programming via media mixing. Much of the research is still ongoing but many of our findings have been written up in conference proceedings and research articles. I thought I would list the references below for anyone that's interested. We also have a co-edited book that highlights some of our Scratch-related work titled, The Computer Clubhouse: Constructionism and Creativity in Youth Communities (Teachers College Press, 2009). Additionally, I did my post-doctoral work at UCIrvine with Dr. Mark Warschauer. During this time, I worked with 80 second-graders using Scratch in the classroom. A high proportion of these youth had (dis)abilities but were able to do amazing things in Scratch. My current research is supported by the National Science Foundation and the MacArthur Foundation. Feel free to contact me if you're interested in learning more at kpeppler@indiana.edu. Books Kafai, Y.B., Peppler, K., & Chapman, R. (Eds.) (2009). The Computer Clubhouse: Creativity and Constructionism in Youth Communities. New York, NY: Teachers College Press. Peer-reviewed journal articles Kafai, Y. & Peppler, K. (in press, 2011). Youth, Technology, and DIY: Developing Participatory Competencies in Creative Media Production. In V. L. Gadsden, S. Wortham, and R. Lukose (Eds.), Youth Cultures, Language and Literacy. Review of Research in Education, Volume 34. Peppler, K. & Kafai, Y. B. (2010). Gaming Fluencies: Pathways into a Participatory Culture in a Community Design Studio. International Journal of Learning and Media, 1(4), pp. 1-14. Peppler, K., Warschauer, M., & Diazgranados, A. (2010). Developing a Culture of Critical Game Design in a Second Grade Classroom. E-Learning, 7(1), pp. 35-48. Peppler, K. (2010). Media Arts: Arts Education for a Digital Age. Teachers College Record, 112(8), pp. 2118_2153. Kafai, Y. B., Desai, S., Peppler, K., Chiu, G. & Moya, J. (2008). Mentoring Partnerships in a Community Technology Center: A Constructionist Approach for Fostering Equitable Service Learning. Mentoring & Tutoring, 16(2), pp. 194-201. Peppler, K. & Kafai, Y. (2007). From SuperGoo to Scratch: exploring creative digital media production in informal learning. Learning, Media, and Technology, 32(2), pp. 149_166. Chapters and other contributions Peppler, K. (2010). The New Fundamentals: Introducing Computation into Arts Education. In E. P. Clapp & M. J. Bellino (Eds.) 20Under40: Reinventing the Arts and Arts Education for the 21st Century. Peppler, K. & Kafai, Y. (June, 2008). Children as Media Art Designers: Workshops for Creative Codings. Proceedings published in the 2008 Interaction Design for Children (IDC) Conference held at Northwestern University, Chicago, IL. Peppler, K. and Kafai, Y.B. (June, 2008). Developing a Design Culture at the Computer Clubhouse: The Role of Local Practices and Mediators. Proceedings published in the 2008 International Conference of the Learning Sciences (ICLS) held at the University of Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands. Peppler, K. and Kafai, Y.B. (June, 2008). Literacy and the Learning Sciences: Creating a Framework for Understanding and Analyzing Youths Media Arts Practices. Proceedings published in the 2008 International Conference of the Learning Sciences (ICLS) held at the University of Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands. Maloney, J., Peppler, K., Kafai, Y.B., Resnick, M. and Rusk, N. (June, 2008). Digital Media Designs with Scratch: What Urban Youth Can Learn about Programming in a Computer Clubhouse. Proceedings published in the 2008 International Conference of the Learning Sciences (ICLS) held at the University of Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands. Maloney, J., Peppler, K., Kafai, Y. B., Resnick, M., Rusk, N. (March, 2008). Programming by Choice: Urban Youth Learning Programming with Scratch. Proceedings published by the ACM Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education, Portland, OR. Peppler, K. & Kafai, Y. B. (September, 2007). What video game making can teach us about learning and literacy: Alternative pathways into participatory culture. In Akira Baba (Ed.), Situated Play: Proceedings of the Third International Conference of the Digital Games Research Association (DiGRA) (pp. 369-376). Tokyo, Japan: The University of Tokyo. Kafai, Y., Peppler, K., & Chiu, G. (2007). High Tech Programmers in Low Income Communities: Seeding Reform in a Community Technology Center. In C. Steinfield, B. Pentland, M. Ackerman, &. N. Contractor (Eds.), Communities and Technologies 2007 (pp. 545-564). New York: Springer. Peppler, K. & Kafai, Y.B. (2007). Collaboration, Computation, and Creativity: Media Arts Practices in Urban Youth Cultures. Proceedings published by the Computer Supported Collaborative Learning (CSCL) Conference held at Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ. Peppler, K. and Kafai, Y. (2006). Creative Codings: Personal, Epistemological, and Cultural Connections to Digital Art Production. Proceedings published in the 2006 International Conference of the Learning Sciences, Bloomington, IN. Kafai, Y., Peppler, K., Alavez, M., and Ruvalcaba, O. (2006). Seeds of a Computer Culture: An Archival Analysis of Programming Artifacts from a Community Technology Center. Proceedings Published in the 2006 International Conference of the Learning Sciences, Bloomington, IN.

Hi, my name is Quinn Burke, and I am currently a doctoral student at the University of Pennsylvaniastudying with Yasmin Kafai. Currently I am examining middle schoolers' use of Scratch to tell stories.In the past there have been a series of studies looking at how storytelling can offer kids an entrance into programming (most notably Caitlin Kelleher's work with theintroductorylanguageAlice, see http://www.alice.org/kelleher/storytelling/). I am interested in how storytellingwithScratch can actually offer more than simply a "ramp" to get kids interested in programming but also speak back to the writing process itself, teaching kids how to develop a narrative, reviseone's work, andput together the basic elements of a story grammar. I am currentlydoingresearch in a middle school in West Philadelphia, using Scratch both insidea language artsclassroom as well as inan afterschool club,exploringkids' creations and how they potentially tie into their development as writers. I am very interested in learning what kind of Scratch stories others are creating withkidsand what success educators have experiencedwith introducing Scratch in terms of English/ languagearts as well as storytelling. I amalso getting more and more interested in how kids share their stories online at the website and howfanfiction genres (e.g., Harry Potter stories/ Final Fantasy animations) can offer kids a scaffold not only in how to use the Scratch software but also asa means tonavigate the website itself and make wider connections online.

My name is Gary. I am a doctoral student at University of Georgia, majored in workforce education. I teach information technology and computer science at Tri-Cities High School. So, I am a full-time teacher and part-time student. My interests are about technology integration in classroom. Now, I got this new tool, Scratch, which I can use in classroom instruction. Thanks for Barb Ericson at GA Tech who directed this wonderful source to me. Hopefully, we will work together more on promoting Scratch in Metro-Atlanta public schools. I am working on my dissertation and trying to find a good research topic. I think using Scratch is under the theory of constructionism that many scholars have studied on. It is great to get connected with best scholars in the field (I cited Kafai and Peppler all the time in my assignments). Hopefully, I can locate an interesting topic to study. See you around.

I have now posted in the resources section the conference paper which was co-authored by my project supervisor and I.

Hello, my name is Yoshiro Miyata. At Chukyo University in Japan, I have been studying trans-cultural learning, i.e., how we can learn collaboratively across cultural and generational boundaries. I have been interested in the potential of Scratch to express, communicate, and collaborate to discover meaning that transcend cultural and generational differences. For this purpose, I am coordinating a collaborative project involving members of many universities, schools and community organizations who are using Scratch as a tool to express themselves and their ideas.  We are now running a series of workshops with Toyota City Lifelong Learning Center in our local community in which small children, students, adults and elderies in the 70's are collaborating to create Scratch animations based on narrative stories using scanned hand drawings and recorded voice. In the past years, we ran workshops in which many children and adults from local Brazilian community collaborated with Japanese participants. We are excited by the possibilities of collaboration of such diverse age and culture groups. We are hoping to connect these local activities with activities around the world. Right now, most partners are in Japan, except one school in the US and one in Inner-Mongolia in China, and I'm hoping to find more partners from around the world. We have set up a website for this project: http://sns.or6.jp/school-news/school-news-english , which links to galleries of Scratch projects and activities at various schools (mostly in Japanese). We are trying to design this website as a gateway for introducing Japanese Scratch users to the users around the world. It would be wonderful if we can connect this project with similar attempts in other parts of the world. So, this is a research project trying to look at Scratch as embedded in the learning environments including the web, classrooms, people and communities, and to experiment how we can design such learning environment as a whole so that the people involved can learn from each other, because of, not in spite of, the differences in cultures and generations.

Hello Yoshiro I am a PhD student with an interest in programming for children as part of their curriculum and the affective impact of it also. I am working with my childrens own school this year and teaching the P4/5 (age 7-9) with Scratch. I think your project sounds very interesting and the class teacher I am working with has thought so too. At the moment I am introducing the children to scratch but by after christmas the children will be working on other projects and we would love to join your project. Sorry i should say we are from a primary school in Glasgow, Scotland. Could you send me some more details please awilson169@gmail.com Amanda

Hello Amanda Thank you for your interest in our project. You are of course welcome to join the project! Right now, students in four universities in Japan are collaboratively working to help elementary school children in Japan, USA, and China (Inner-Mongolia) in learning with Scratch. It is exciting to have a new partner from Scotland! (I've never been to Scotland although I've visited Nottingham and York in a study tour with my students.) I'll try to describe how we have been collaborating so far. We usually start by exchanging Scratch projects to introduce our schools and team members to each other.  (Projects are in this gallery: http://scratch.mit.edu/galleries/view/99695) One such project has recently been selected as a "featured project" on the Scratch site and received many interesting comments from all over the world. (http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/h309017/1340424) Then each class (or team in the class) proposes ideas for collaborative Scratch projects.  Other school members look at these ideas and try to team up to work on ideas of common interests.  For example, children in an elementary school in Japan have studied the environment around their school, such as living things in a nearby river, its water quality, the history of recycling in the community, etc.., and would try to express their observations with Scratch animations. They are just beginning to learn Scratch, so they will first send their drawings of their animation ideas to the university students, who will try to help the children create the animations. Another example is an elementary school near Boston, which is described in this blog post: http://sns.or6.jp/scratch-network-forum/-collaboration-blog/ideas-from-jackson-school-1109?lang=en I think you might be aware of this school and the teacher. Amanda, if you can describe what you would like your students to learn with Scratch, and ideas for collaboration, we can start discussing how to collaborate. Please let me know if you have any questions or suggestions. I prefer discussing on an open forum like this, but you can email me at mudpie446 at_mark mac.com Yoshiro

My name is Stephen Quinn, I am a final year student teacher in Belfast, I am completing a study into the use of Scratch in teaching secondary level Maths (for pupils aged 11-18). I would be interested in talking to a teacher (from uk) that is using scratch in secondary maths lesson. This wouldreally help my research and study.

Hi, My name is Ivete and currently in my last year of master studyat Norwegian University of Science and Technology(NTNU). I am doing a research on Quality of Scratch Project. If anyone have suggestion please write to me on oliveira.ivete@gmail.com. I also posted some question under "researching scratch. :-)

Hi, I am a full time teacher at an international school in Singapore and a part-time Ed.D. student in "instructional technology and distance education", fancy title, but simply educational technology. My main focus is educational robotics but the foundation of that, as with Scratch is constructionism so I am interested in Scratch research that contributes to our understanding in that area. Presently, I devote one quarter to Scratch in my grade 8 (13 year olds) course. I might introduce it at a younger age as well, possibly linking it with WeDo robotics kitsthat we have. As is so often the case, time is the issue. Happy Scratching and Researching, Wayne

Hi My field of study is IT and i have MA degree from shiraz university, iran. I work on e-learning and teaching computer creativity to elementary students. also my MA thesis was in learning algorithmic thinking and programming to elementary students.I follow your discussions.It would be my chance using Scratch in my classes from 2011 up to now.What are scientific papers or technical reports that are published based on elementary students? Best regards Mohammad

Hi Iam vinaykumar from india. I just finished my MCA. i have done my final sem project-research on scratch programming. My question is how scratch is going to provide computational thinking. we have scratch research team. we found some methods like working on fractal examples, recursion techniques. my project name is "SCRATCH FOR EDUCATION AND ITS LOCALIZATION" - i made entire scratch enviroment in kannada and i have developed so many examples and made corresponding documentation in kannada. scratch supports many languages. if you consider india, peoples are of different languages are there. i have visited so many schools in villages and i taught scratch programming. i made research paper on 1. INTEGRATING LANGUAGE AND ARTS WITH MIT SCRATCH 2. RECURSION- USING SCRATCH TO TEACH RECURSION CONCEPT FOR NOVICERS A. Recursion - part 1 B. Recursion - part2 C. Recursion - Part3 currently, i am creating a textbook on scratch programming in kannada. I am very interested to do research on scratch programming. we have separate scratch team here. currently i am working on this one only. my approach is Cloud implementation of scratch programming in india where in one place the users should get all the materials in all indian languages and scratch editor should be available in cloud.

Hi Natalie I think there hasn't been anything by way of research topics --- but I am very interested in conducting research as it relates to the effect of using Scratch on language development in children with disabilities as well as cogntivie growth in the same population. Any resources or anyone willing to partner? We had a wonderful group at the unconference session for those working with children with disabilities at ScratchMIT2014 -- what paths or options for a)research opportunities b)research funding c) research through collaborative partnerships  are available?  i work only with children with hearing loss learning to listen and talk (no sign language) but am interested in research related to children with all types of disabilities

hi, Like Ai Boon tan I am just a "scratcher" interested in research others are conducting. Recently I've joined a volunteer team at the "RNIB" that supports their "Load2learn" website so I just wondered about the use of "scratch" by visually impaired people/students.

Dear mates: Audio Slides SCRATCH RESEARCH https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aXJ18vIfeH0&feature=youtu.be Visual programming languages integrated across the curriculum in elementary school: A two year case study using scratch in five schools Source: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2016.03.003Computers & Education Available online 10 March 2016

Hey, I'm Scarlet and for quite some time I've been working with children (honestly speaking I never imagined myself being a teacher) but I've decided to work in a local orphanage. Kids over there are so great but it is just a shame this orphanage isn't equipt well. And for a couple of weeks I've been trying to teach these kids with scratched. Well some enjoy it, some don't. Still, such creative projects do benefit kids, even those who don't particularly like creative stuff. As to my research interests, that's all about teaching techniques in elementary school as well as educational psychology. Actually, I'm more interested into learning how our minds work and how to read a person (I've been doing research into this since college (this was my thesis topic at University of Washington and I decided to continue researching it with Research Paper Writings center) but when I was having my practical training in that orphanage I just couldn't stop myself from spending a couple of hours per day or two with them.

Hi everyone. I am a masters student, doing applied research on effective Scratch teaching methodologies for teaching computational thinking in Papua New Guinea. I'm planning to do surveys through both students and educators on the online Scratch community.

