Blocks and Beyond: Lessons and Directions for First Programming Environments AVL/HCC 2015workshop in Atlanta on Thu., 22 Oct. 2015 Submissions due Fri. 24 Jul. 2015 Call for Participation Scope and Goals Blocks programming environments represent program syntax trees as compositions of visual blocks. This family of tools includes Scratch, Blockly, Code.org's lessons, App Inventor, Snap!, Pencil Code, Alice/Looking Glass, AgentSheets/AgentCubes, etc. They have introduced programming and computational thinking to tens of millions, reaching people of all ages and backgrounds. Despite their popularity, there has been remarkably little research on the usability, effectiveness, or generalizability of affordances from these environments. The goal of this workshop is to begin to distill testable hypotheses from the existing folk knowledge of blocks-based programming environments and identify research questions and partnerships that can legitimize, or discount, pieces of this knowledge. The workshop will bring together educators and researchers with experience in blocks languages, as well as members of the broader VL/HCC community who wish to examine this area more deeply. We seek participants with diverse expertise, including, but not limited to: design of programming environments, instruction with these environments, the learning sciences, data analytics, usability, and more. The workshop will be a generative discussion that sets the stage for future work and collaboration. It will include participant presentations and demonstrations that frame the discussion, followed by reflection on the state of the field and smaller working-group discussion and brainstorming sessions. Suggested Topics for Discussion Who uses blocks programming environments and why? What do they create in these environments, and how satisfied are they with their creations? Which features of blocks environments help or hinder users?How do we know? Which of these features are worth incorporating into more traditional IDEs? What helpful features are missing? How can blocks environments and associated curricular materials be made more accessible to everyone, especially those with disabilities? Can blocks programming appeal to a wider range of interests (e.g., by allowing connections to different types of devices, web services, data sources, etc.)? What are the best ways to introduce programming to novices and to support their progression towards mastery? Do these approaches differ for for learners of computing basics and for makers? What are the conceptual and practical hurdles encountered by novice users of blocks languages when they face the transition to text languages and traditional programming communities? What can be done to reduce these hurdles? How can we best harness online communities to support growth through teaching, motivating, and providing inspiration and feedback? What roles should collaboration play in blocks programming? How can environments support that collaboration? In these environments, what data can be collected, and how can that data be analyzed to determine answers to questions like those above? How can we use data to answer larger scale questions about early experiences with programming? What are the lessons learned (both positive and negative) from creating first programming environments that can be shared with future environment designers? Submission (due 24 Jul 2015) We invite two kinds of submissions: A 1 to 3 page position statement describing an idea or research question related to the design, teaching, or study of blocks programming environments. A paper (up to 6 pages) describing previously unpublished results involving the design, study, or pedagogy of blocks programming environments. All submissions must be made as PDF files to theEasy Chair Blocks and Beyond workshop submission site. Because this workshop will be discussion-based, rather than a mini-conference, the number of presentation/demonstration slots are limited. Authors for whom presentation or demonstration is essential should indicate this in their submission. Important Dates 24 Jul. 2015:Submissions due. 14 Aug. 2015:Author notification. 4 Sep. 2015:Camera ready copies due. 22 Oct. 2015:Workshop in Atlanta. 23 Oct. 2015:Extra day for blocks language developers, researchers, and teachers to interact Workshop Website For more information on the workshop, including a tentative workshop schedule, see the Blocks and Beyond Workshop website. Organizers Franklyn Turbak (chair), Wellesley College. David Bau, Google Jeff Gray, University of Alabama Caitlin Kelleher,Washington University Josh Sheldon, MIT. Program Committee Neil Brown, University of Kent Dave Culyba, Carnegie Mellon University Sayamindu Dasgupta, MIT Deborah Fields, Utah State University Neil Fraser, Google Mark Friedman, Google Dan Garcia, University of California, Berkeley Benjamin Mako Hill, University of Washington Fred Martin, University of Massachusetts Lowell Paul Medlock-Walton, MIT Yoshiaki Matsuzawa, Aoyama Gakuin University Amon Millner, Olin College Ralph Morelli, Trinity College Brook Osborne, Code.org Jonathan Protzenko, Microsoft Research Alexander Repenning, University of Colorado, Boulder Ben Shapiro, Tufts University Wolfgang Slany, Graz University of Technology Daniel Wendel, MIT

