Hi everyone, Scratch@MIT 2012 registration is now available online at http://www.regonline.com/scratchmit2012 We also have a block of rooms available in on-campus housing. There is more information about the on-campus housing available at the end of the registration process, but if you're interested in cost, you can get a single for74/night,fulldoublefor74/night,fulldoublefor98/night, and a shared double for $49/night. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to post them!

Hi Karen, I really want to visit Scratch@MIT 2012 (hopefully my second time). I have tried to raise money from a scholarship fund in Sweden, and will probably get an answer in the beginning/middle of May. Do you think Scratch@MIT is filled up with people then? Or should I register now and hope for the money... with a possibility to loose my registration fee... Please guide me... :) Anders

It should be fine to wait until May to register...

I am coming and bringing high school students. I'd love to connect with any other high school groups coming. My high schoolers are getting cold feet about the trip and I think if they skyped with other teens going it would make them more comfortable. I know it will be great for them... but how to reassure them?

Hi Karen I canme last summer, is this something I can do again, or is this just for beginners?

Hi Ernest, Scratch@MIT(a.k.a. the Scratch conference) is actually a different event than Creative Computing. I definitely encourage you to attend Scratch@MIT!

Will there be a Creative Computing this summer? My husband is feeling left out since I'll be with students this summer at Scratch@MIT - humm and I need to do some more of my own learning too... dare I indulge in both? Are they both happening this summer?

Yes, we'll be hosting Creative Computing again this summer (Wednesday, August 8 - Saturday, August 11). More information will be available soon...

Thank you ... I have had a hard time adding my photo to the invitation, but I will keep on trying until it happens.

Do you know when the Scratch@MIT program will be published?

In a couple of days...

:)

Hi Karen, do you know if there are some "frenchy"guys like me who had registered ? Scratch is, a so so wonderfull programming (and learning) tool, but, here, in France ... its like a martian tool .... lol ! So, I'm afraid that for the Scratch@MIT sessions ...i have a too much poorly english ... But, anyway, thanks to you and all the team for that fantastic work ! Jos_

Jose - you will be fine at the session with my students and they would love to meet you! What age do you teach? We would LOVE some Scratch partners in France!!

I have been trying to add a picture for some time now and it just keeps rejecting all my pictures and won't let me register.

Hmmm. Strange. Why don't you email me the photo? I'll format it in a way that I know will be accepted by the system and send it back to you.

I have inserted it I think

I hope this works

