I plan to introduce Scratch programming software to students in grades 6-8 by February of 2011. None of these students have been formally introduced to programming. I saw Scratch in action at a MICCA conference in April of 2010 and was impressed. I believe students will learn some valuable programming concepts by using Scratch. Since I am not a programmer, I will need an easy-to-use Scratch tutorial to familiarize myself with Scratch before introducing the program to students. Can anyone recommend an easy-to-use Scratch tutorial with learning activities appropriate for middle school students? Once I'm comfortable enough with the program, I plan to have students use Scratch to develop curriculum based projects. From GE

I would start at the official Scratch website (scratch.mit.edu). They have some great introductory material. Beyond that, I always find starting with a simple project is useful because you come out with a product while learning some fundamentals. Making a simple "Pong" game was a good place to start for me and I found this site: http://www.smsn.vic.edu.au/ictguy/wp-content/podcasts/scratch_pong_640.mp4 Learnscratch.org is also a great resource! Hope that helps. Happy Scratching! Mike

Hi George, I also recommend the support page on the Scratch website. There are alsoresourcesand tutorial pages. As for student activities, my favorite is the exquisite corpse activity. There is aworksheet and teacher's reflection. I'd also recommend looking at the Scratch Cards. There is a discussion about this herewhich might give you some more ideas about introducing Scratch to beginners. I would also check through the resources in the 13-15 age range. I'd be interested to hear about you and your students' progress. Keep us updated!

I agree with MIke about Pong - it covers a lot of skills and concepts and getting a working game is a satisfying result. With our year 5/6 group we guided step by step through this activity in about 15-20 mins max, then in the remaining workshop time invited modifications and improvements, which were plentiful. The example projects also provide a range of potential project starting points.

