Reposted from the MIT Media Lab. Scratch Community Manager, Lifelong Kindergarten The MIT Scratch Team is seeking a Community Manager to supervise the moderation, support, and encouragement of social interactions in the worldwide community of young people using the Scratch website (http://scratch.mit.edu). Ideal candidates should have experience in managing online communities at scale. The Scratch community includes more than 9 million registered members (ages 8 and up) who have shared more than 12 million interactive stories, games, and animations on the website. The Scratch Community Manager supervises the Scratch Moderation Team, including full-time and part-time staff in distributed locations. The Community Manager works closely with other members of the Scratch Team as part of the Lifelong Kindergarten research group at the MIT Media Lab. This is a one-year full-time appointment with opportunities for extension. US work authorization is required. Responsibilities: Manages and oversees the Scratch Community team, including staff focused on moderating the website and promoting positive activities in the online community; Participates actively in the Scratch online community as a leader, mentor, and resource for youth; Reports to others on the Scratch Team on important trends in the community; Provides feedback to others on the Scratch Team to help identify problem trends and potential areas for improvements; Participates in design discussions and helps prioritize improvements on the website; Coordinates with other groups/organizations on issues related to Scratch community. Qualifications Skills and Experience: Experience managing online communities (ideally large-scale communities); Experience supporting youth in informal or interest-driven settings; Experience supervising staff (ideally across distributed locations); Excellent writing and communication skills. Interested applicants should submit a resume and cover letter referencing job no. 13225 at http://careers.mit.edu; keyword is Media Laboratory.

