Thanks to everyone who was able to join us on Saturday at the Scratch educator meetup! We had a fantastic time and we hope you did too. Here are resources and a recap from Saturday's session... Attendees Here's a list of people who attended Saturday's meetup: Janet Dee Erika Ferranti Teresa Ferrer Erika Gold Ingrid Gustafson Colin Meltzer Albert Redo Algot Runeman Rosemary Slattery Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Gracie Elqura Aaron Morris To connect with people you met, you can leave messages on people's profiles or use ScratchEd's direct messaging feature. If you aren't "linked", sign up for a ScratchEd account, post a comment below, and we'll update the list to point to your profile page. Check out thisvideoto learn more about how to configure your subscriptions and notifications. Recap After a quick speed dating activity to get everyone acquainted, the group brainstormed breakout session topics and formed an agenda for the meetup based on everyone's goals and interests. Karen and Aaron led a breakout group on evaluation, where Ingrid presented the assessment activity she's been working on with her first and second graders. Algot suggested a play session. Michelle and Gracie introduced Scratch and facilitated an open-build session, where participants created Scratch projects, explored the new Scratch curriculum guide and were introduced to the LEGO WeDo kit. Over lunch, Janet shared her plans for using Scratch as a presentation tool for high school students. This led to a group discussion around strategies for integrating Scratch across different curricular areas. View photos from the event on the ScratchEd Flickr page:http://www.flickr.com/photos/38090850@N08/sets/72157628077678466 Resources New Scratch curriculum guide draft Scratch cards LEGO WeDo robotics kit Future Events Next meetup: Saturday, December 3, 10am to 1pm Next webinar: Debugging Demystified - Wednesday, November 30 at 7pm We look forward to meeting up with you again! Karen and Michelle on behalf of the ScratchEd Team

