Hello from the Scratch Team! We are excited to share that Scratch Teacher Accounts are now available! Scratch Teacher Accounts enable educators to create and manage classes, student accounts, and class studios. If you are interested in learning more about or registering a new Teacher Account, you can do this on the Educators page on the Scratch website: https://scratch.mit.edu/educators/ We look forward to continuing to improve the site to support you and your students participation on Scratch. Scratch On! Christan Balch, for the MIT Scratch Team

So excited about the teacher accounts! Is there a limit to the number of students that can be assigned to a class? I noticed that the csv file upload has a limit of 50. Thank you Scratch Team! You are all heroes!

Thank you, thank, you, THANK YOU!

Hi Bradley! Nope, there is no limit to the number of students that can be assigned to a class. :)

So excited about teacher accounts! Yay! I have a quick question...once I've set up each class, and added my students, how do they log in? Do they sign in with my teacher username and password? Also, I set up a test student to try to figure this out myself...how can I delete that test student? Thank you!

Hi Karen. Good questions! The password for student accounts depends on how you created their accounts. Did you use a CSV, email link, or create the accounts one at a time? If you used a CSV then you predetermined their password when you created the accounts. If you used the email link, then students create their own password by following the link. If you created the accounts one by one, then the password is your Teacher Account username (they will be prompted to change this after logging in for the first time). In order to delete the test account, you will need to sign into that account and delete it through the Account Settings menu. We have created a Teacher Account FAQ page as well as avideo about Teacher Accounts that I think might be helpful in answering some of your questions :) I hope this helps!

Perfect, thank you so much!

Hi Christan, I would lik to provide the Traditional Chinese subtitle for the "video about Teacher Accounts". Youtube can antomatically gernerate aEnglish .srt file May I have the English .srt file so that I can do the transaltion? YH.

I've been trying to test adding in a student account from the email link, but any username I try using has already been taken according to the error message that gets generated. The only thing that's worked is the CSV import. I'm also unclear about the accessibility of the Student account: If I close a class, does the Student account that is created become unusable to the student? Is the workflow to get them to createa personal scratch account and transfer the work done from the teacher created Student account, to their new personal account?

New ot Scratch and ScratchEd. Have my class set up, kids are coding so life is good. HOWEVER, is there a way for me to see their work easily? Is this what the studio function is for? Am I missing a help file or video on this topic. I watched the intro video which was helpful, but when he created the sample "Studio" he really didn't explain its function. I appologize if I have missed this post or instruction. Thank you!

Setting up the student accounts for my classrooms. I just accidently added a group of students with a .csv upload to the wrong classroom. There appears to be no way to manually move them across to their correct classroom and I am unable to delete their accounts. Any suggestions to get the moved into their correct classroom and out of the "test" classroom? I'm probably just going to rename test to Grade 8 but for my own information is there a way to move a student or do they have the option to Leave a classroom and then join another?

I am having trouble figuring out how these teacher accounts work. I added a student to a test class using a generated link and it says that student in the class. If I heard right, I have to make all of the kids in my class curators in order to see all of their work in one place. I don't really understand what that means, but I tried to do that with my test student by clicking Invite Curators and selecting that student and clicking Add but a message shows up saying that only members of the class can be curators. This person is already in the class but can't be added as a curator. I'm trying to figure out what the benefit is to using a Teacher Account versus just having the kids make accounts and share links with me. I thought these accounts would be easier to navigate and allow a teacher to give a course code or link to students who would then enroll in the class and all projects that students created would appear in that classroom. It seems there is an awful lot of set up required to get this working and I'm having trouble figuring it all out. I have many new students to Scratch and they are not happy about being forced to share their very beginner work with the universe. I get the whole Share with All thing but there should be occasions that teachers (especially of younger students) should be afforded the option to wall off their classes so kids are free to learn and experiment without doing it in public.

Hi Ann! Thanks for the post. Scratch Teacher Accounts are new, and our team is still working out the kinks - thanks to comments from people like yourself! Regarding your question about studios, all Student Accounts created within a class will automatically be added as curators for any studios created in that class. We have noticed a 10-15 minute delay in seeing these Student Accounts appear in the curator section of the class; perhaps this is what happened during your test? When we built Student Accounts, we made the decision to align these accounts with regular Scratcher accounts in many ways, including their relationship to the greater community. This was because we have seen time and again the importance of the community in supporting and encouraging Scratchers to keep coding. That said, we also understand your concerns about sharing publicly on Scratch. Keep in mind that you can always choose to use the offline version of Scratch instead, which removes the online community entirely from the equation. Thank you again for sharing your thoughts. Hopefully I have provided a bit of insight into how these accounts work, and why we built them that way. We welcome any other feedback you may have.

Hi I think the Teacher Accounts are great and have set up my class. Although I used a csv file to set up username and passwords, the students still had to complete their personal info (age, gender, country etc) themselves. Is it possible for me to include this in the csv so that they skip this step? Thank you!

I have the same issue in that I don't want my students' work to be visible to the entire community due to their age, lack of parental approval, and privacy. I also have an additional constraint that students are using Chromebooks and therefore cannot use the offline version. I have found a potential solution. I came across a Scatch X version of Scratch that is not supported by Scratch but has been working so far. It has the same look and all of the features of the on-line Scratch account with the addition of an extension for the Finch robot. The benefits are that 1) It can be used on-line without an account, 2) the students can use it on a chromebook 3) the students can save their work directly to Google Drive. They can then submit their work to me via Google Classroom or, if you are not using Google classroom, they could share the file with you. I have not yet tested having to grade all of these but I think it might not be a problem if I download the off-line editor on my Mac. If a student wants to share their work with the community, and gets their parents' permission to create an online Scratch account, they can always upload their Scratch program to that account. Good luck!

If you go tohttps://scratch.mit.edu/projects/editor/ you can use the File / Download to Your Computer to save work without an account and File / Upload from Your Computer to load saved work from your computer. When you are on a Chromebook, this will use Google Drive for where things are saved. This lets you use the Scratch2.0 editor to create projects.

Hi Chris!Thanks for the question. Currently, it is not possible to include this information in the CSV file during account creation. I will pass along your suggestion as something to consider as we continue iterating and improving upon Scratch Teacher Accounts. :)

I tried to sign up for a teacher account last night but never received a confirmation email. I am using the same email address that I used for my personal account. Could that be the problem? Is there any way to change my personal account into a teacher account? Meg Franks

Hi Meg. If you email help@scratch.mit.edu, I can help you there (I don't want to ask you for the verification details here since we ask for that stuff to stay private on Scratch). In the email you send, please provide the username and email address of the Teacher Account you created. Thanks! :)

Thanks for the Chromebook info Vicky! We continue to use the offline version on our Mac laptops, but this is good to know for our Chromebooks. I'm still patiently waiting for a Google sign-on option :)

How do I quickly and easily sign into my teacher account? I have one, it has been verified, but I keep getting kicked to the regular Scratch Ed account. Please help.

Hi Jessie! In order to help, I will need a bit more information. Since I do not want to ask for account information publicly, will you send a message to help@scratch.mit.edu with your Scratch Teacher Account username and the email address associated with the account. I can help you there. Thanks!

Hi Paula, another option you might like to try is ITCH. We host our own version of scratch. We keep all your students projects visible for commenting only to your class. As an added benefit, we provide support for submitting projects to the teacher for grading with rubrics in our learning management system.

Removing a student from a class. A number of students have been added to the wrong class. I would like to "eject" them from the current class and add them to the other. I don't want to delete the student, just remove them from the class panel.

I have registered and been accepted for a Scratch teacher account, but I cant see where to create and manage a class. I would appreciate some help. I'm not even sure which URL I should be using:https://scratch.mit.edu/educators/ orhttp://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/ Please confirm URL and path to create a class. Thanks, Linda

Hi George. Currently, it is not possible to move students from one class to another. You will need to create a new account for those students. Apologies for the inconvenience.

Hi Linda. Scratch Teacher Accounts are created and found on scratch.mit.edu. When you created your account did you do this through the Teacher Account registration process on this page? If not, you may have created a regular Scratch account instead of a Teacher Account which would explain why you are unable to see the Teacher Account features. If you are comfortable sharing your Scratch username here, I may be able to check on the status of the account for you. If not, that's totally fine. You can always send a message to help@scratch.mit.edu and I can help you there. Have you seen the Teacher Account FAQ video we created yet? I think it may be help answer a lot of the questions you have. You can find that video here:https://scratch.mit.edu/educators/faq

Hi Christan, Yes, I did register on the teacher page, with the username lindawollan, and received two emails back. The first confirmed that 'Your application for an account is currently being reviewed. Any accountapplications that are not from teachers/educators will not be approved'.The second email said'Your ScratchEd account for lindawollan has been approved'. I then followed the links and changed passwords, etc. I can sign into bothhttps://scratch.mit.edu/ andhttp://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/ but nowhere do I see the purple bannerthat has the My Classes, Educator Resources and Teacher Account FAQ buttons on it. I tried emailing scratch@mit.edu, but received an email back saying that they are 'very busy, so were not able to respond to all the messages we receive' - I assume that's an auto-reply :) Would you please check my account to see whether I have the appropriate access? I would appreciate it. Thanks, Linda

Hi Linda, ScratchEd accounts (which is the account you are using here) are different from Scratch Teacher Accounts (which are found on scratch.mit.edu). Sorry if this is confusing! It looks like the account "lindawollan" was created six months ago - we had not released Teachers Account when you created this so it is a regular Scratch account, not a Teacher Account. Might you have created another account using a different username? (The username can be found in the emails that you received.)If not, that's okay. You can make a Teacher Account here:https://scratch.mit.edu/educators/register I hope this helps! Thanks, christan

The ScratchEd Team, with help from the amazing Christan Balch,will behosting a Twitter chat on teacher accounts this coming Monday, October 24 at 7pm EST. We hope you'll join us for the discussion! Willa, on behalf of the ScratchEd Team

Has anyone had a student try to upload a project made on a Raspberry Pi (using Scratch 1.4) to their student account? I have a student who tried this week and he got an error message saying "unknown user". Last year, my students who had their own traditional Scratch accounts were able to successfully upload from the Pi. Thanks!

Thanks Christan. I assumed that the account I created 6 months ago, was a teacher account, as it had to be approved with all my teacher details given. I have now created another account giving all the same credentials - unfortunately I had to use a different user name, which is even more confusing, as I now have two accounts :( I'm now waiting again to be accepted as a teacher, so I can get going.

Thanks for the quick reply.. Is there anyway to remove the accounts from the class listthat are not needed? This will become a bit confusing.

Hi George.Currently, there is no way to quickly delete or edit the account from within the Teacher Account. The deletion menu is within the Student Account, so you must first log in with the student (or log in yourself, if you've created the account in error), and navigate from the top-right dropdown: Account Settings > Account > "I want to delete my account". I hope this helps!

Following up on the Raspberry Pi issue, we did finally get projects from Pi to upload to students accounts. User error suspected. Cheers.

Glad to hear you were able to upload to student accounts :) Have a good day!

Hi Christan, I am just getting ready to start using Scratch again with my students this year. I have two accounts--My origianl account(MESTech) I used for years with my students before Teacher Accounts. This account has lots of resources, studios and projects that I want to still use with my students. I also have alpha teacher account that I used last school year with my students. What I would like to do, is convert my original account to a teacher account and combine it with my alpha teacher account. I do not want to keep my alpha user name as it was the genericscratchteacheralpha029 username. I would like to keep my original username, MESTech. When I was at the conference this year, I spoke to someone regarding this and was told all I needed to do was to send an email and this could be done. Unfortunately, I can not find the email address  I only see on the Scratch site where I can request a new account. Can you help me or direct me to who I should contact. Thanks!

Hi Sandy. Thanks for reaching out! We actually do not have the ability to combine Scratch accounts, but Id be happy to convert your regular account into a Teacher Account for you though. Please send a message to teacher-accounts@scratch.mit.eduwith your regular account username and the email address associated with your account and we can help you there. Thanks!

I have a question about studios and student accounts. Is there a way to share one studio across multiple classes? Thank you!

I am revisiting Scratch with its new teacher functions and am also getting started with CS First. I recently set up my first class of students with a studio in Scratch but have yet to start with the students. I have also recently created my first club in CS First intended for the same class of students. Can anyone advise on the pros and cons of using each independently? Can I have the students follow the activities in CS and login to the New Scratch Studio account so I can take advantage of the new features of Scratch? Or is it better to simply have them log into the Scratch account created in CS First? Any advice is appreciated.

I am facing the same dilemma. I inquired on the Google side also. It would be great if you could use one account on both platforms.

... or, using any existing account to join a class. Students shouldn't need to create new accounts to join a class.

Hi, I have a teacher account for TeacherNorfleet, but do not see where I can set up my classes.

Hi, did you open the URL on the confirmation mail? I remember just same problem happened on me.

Hi! I teach teachers how to use Scratch and other resources, so I though teachers account will be great! However, I have many doubts: - Students accounts only work within the class? Can they just enter and do their projects independently? - Can teachers track changes on the projects? or are there any function that allow some following up? - I usually teach how to create and studio, invite students to create they accounts and later became curators, so all projects witihin a class can be part of the same studio. Taking this? What are the extra benefits of having a teacher account? - I read here in the comments something about csv to create students accounts? no idea what that is. Thanks in advance!!!

Hi there! It looks like you have created a regular Scratch account rather than a Teacher Account. You can create a Teacher Account here:https://scratch.mit.edu/educators/#teacher-accounts I hope this helps!

Hi Natalia, Students accounts only work within the class? Can they just enter and do their projects independently? I'm not sure I understand your question. Might you please elaborate on what you mean by this? Can teachers track changes on the projects? or are there any function that allow some following up? No, there are no tools in Scratch that would allow you to track changes on a project. I usually teach how to create and studio, invite students to create they accounts and later became curators, so all projects witihin a class can be part of the same studio. Taking this? Students are automatically added as curators to studios created within a classroom. This allows you to bypass the step of inviting students to curate studios. What are the extra benefits of having a teacher account?I read here in the comments something about csv to create students accounts? no idea what that is. I would encourage you to check out our Teacher Account FAQ page as well as the introductory video we've created on Teacher Accounts (found on the same page) as I think it might be helpful in answering some of your questions. I hope this helps, christan

Hi, @Christan Balch I love the teacher account, this will allow me to come back to scratch. Is there an easy way for students to migrate projects they created in a regular scratch account to a teacher managed account?

Hi, @Christan Balch I love the teacher account, this will allow me to come back to scratch. Is there an easy way for students to migrate projects they created in a regular scratch account to a teacher managed account?

Hi there! There are a couple ways your students might migrate their projects from a regular account to a student account.The first way would be to download their projects from the regular account and then re-upload them into their newly created student account. Alternatively _ and perhaps easier _ they can make use of Scratch's remix feature and remix their projects from their regular account to the new student account. Remixes will be saved even if the original project is deleted. I hope this helps!

in creative computing learner workbook we have reflections can someone send the sample answers for those reflections, my students want to compare the answers. my mail id is maruthi.yerra@cdconcordia.com

hi @ christan blach. I need ansswers for reflection prompts in creative computing learner workbook for all 7 units.

Hi Maruthi Yerra, Answers are not available for the Creative Computing guide.

How do I create my classroom. I use code.org and codehs, but Scratch seems too busy and not easy to find where and how to create a classroom to start using it. thanks

Hi Aneck! I would encourage you to check out our Teacher Account FAQ page as well as watch the introductory video we have shared there. I think it may be helpful in answering your question :)

Hi Bradley, It looks like nobody ever answered your question, but I sure wish they had, because I also would like to know if it's possible to share one studio across multiple classes. Have you ever found an answer to your question?

Hi Christan, I appreciate that I'm replying to a reply that you wrote almost 2 years ago, so apologies if what I'm asking doesn't take account of more up-to-date information. I have the same problem as George - I want to move students from one class to another. I don't want to have to go through the tedious process of deleting students' accounts, then creating new accounts, with new usernames, for every student, just so I can re-organize the classes that they are all in. From now on, I plan to only create Scratch classes that will be named according to graduation year, so students will just stay in that same class as they move from one year level to the next. But that doesn't solve the problem of those students who are still enrolled in last year's class. I want to tidy things up, but don't want to have to spend lots of time deleting and re-creating student accounts, and confusing students who already have enough trouble remembering current usernames and passwords, without giving them a new one, or chasing up student to get them to delete their own accounts etc. etc. I've used a number of different online platforms for students over the years, and have never encountered one where account management is as cumbersome as it is on Scratch. I'm tempted to just go back to using the offline version of Scratch, which is what I did for years before Scratch teacher accounts became available. But the kids love being able to explore other Scratchers creations, getting inspiration, re-mixing and so on. PLEASE, is there anything that can be done about this??

Hi, I use the teacher account and have some classes in this 2 years. So, it is one of greatest function of Scratch! But I don't understand for some problems. 1. Why can anybody still send comments to the project in closed class? After class closed, the student can't sign-in, answer to the comment, or control the thread. It seems unfair or sometime danger, isn't it? 2. Why the students accounts named in global? The teacher have to make so many global username, or usual "school-year-class-numbering" name. How was the architecture for the identificationby the special delimiter? (ex. name.class) 3. At first, student and teachers talk each other in comment, only in the scratch class, not in global. Especially low grade, it difficult to take care to access to the global SNS. Thank you!

Hello, I may have hit the limit on the number of students that I can add to a class. Is this documented or can someone tell me? Thanks, Kelly Powers

Hi Kelly! How many students have you added to the class? I wonder whether this question may be better directed toward the teacher accounts email: teacher-accounts@scratch.mit.edu, or the Teaching with Scratch Facebook Group where we've migrated many of our discussions. I think you'll get more helpful feedback from those sources! Best, Alexa

Hi Alexa, I'll send an email. I have 259 students and it seems to have maxed out at 250. Kelly

Hello! I Teach scratch in a school. I lecture 5 classes on daily basis. Each class attend the Scratch for 35 minutes which, to me, personally, doesn't seems to be enough for such kind of activities. Meanwhile administration cannot allow me to engage every group more than 35 minutes as other teacher have to teach as well. So My Question is how should I manage my lecture, curricullum and activities and all sorts of things to get most out of my students with the 35 minute integration in computer lab. It is a big challenge for me. Can anyone help me sort out this problem.

