This issue of the ScratchNotes newsletter was sent out on October 17, 2014. ScratchNotes A seasonal newsletter for the Scratch educator community Fall 2014 Volume 5, Issue 2 Hello Harvard! The ScratchEd online community has moved from MIT to Harvard! Please update your bookmarks to reflect our new home at the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE). Thank you for your patience as we settle into our new home and please report any bugs found on the new site. http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu Creative Computing Curriculum Guide We are pleased to announce that the new Scratch curriculum guide is available to download. This introductory computing curriculum includes 44 activities, sample Scratch projects, handouts, and more. Visit the guide website to download this free resource and accompanying student workbook. http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide New Computational Thinking Website What is computational thinking? How can it be assessed? Learn about computational thinking and find resources to support and assess computational thinking on our new Computational Thinking site, developed in collaboration with Education Development Center's Center for Children & Technology. http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/ct Creative Computing Webinar, October 23 Want to help others create, share, and learn with Scratch? Join members of the HGSE ScratchEd Team for an hour-long introduction to the new Creative Computing Curriculum Guide. This free webinar is hosted by the National Writing Project's Educator Innovator network. http://educatorinnovator.org/webinars/creative-computing-getting-started-with-computational-literacy-in-the-classroom Scratch Educator Meetups in NYC and Cambridge Meet up with other Scratch educators to network, share ideas, and learn more about Scratch at a ScratchEd meetup. Join a meetup in Cambridge, Massachusetts or New York City, New York -- and stayed tuned for more locations, coming soon. http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/discussions/scratch-educator-meetups CCOW Survey Help us design the next version of the Creative Computing Online Workshop by responding to a short survey. We are seeking feedback from everyone, whether you participated for 1 hour or 6 weeks, with an emphasis on barriers to participation. Thanks in advance for sharing! https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/CCOW-barriers Scratch Hour of Code Activity Want your students to participate in the Hour of Code? Join in by making interactive holiday cards with Scratch! Learn more, explore the tutorial, and discover resources on our Hour of Code with Scratch site. http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/hoc ScratchJr iPad App Now Available ScratchJr -- an introductory programming language that enables young children (ages 5-7) to create their own interactive stories and games -- is now available as a free iPad app. Learn more online. http://www.scratchjr.org

