Hi everyone, I'm thrilled to announce that the Creative Computing Online Workshop site is now open for registration. The first week's activities will be available on Monday, June 3, but until then, you can look at the schedule and review our responses tofrequently asked questions. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to ask them here, in the course forums, or through the Google+ community. Hope to "see" you at the workshop! Sincerely, Karen, on behalf of the Creative Computing Facilitation Team

So excited!! I am specifically looking for assessment methods while using SCRATCH... I have incorporated it in classes previously, but I am looking for ideas around differentiated instruction and levelling options for students who move ahead quickly.... thanks Marcus Twyford Mother of Mercy High School

Thank you for this opportunity! This summer I'm working with 3D printing and hope to have a printer in my classroom this fall. My goal in this class is to work on my own learning and find ways to integrate in a meaningful way 3D printing and Scratch.

I have not yet been able to access your Creative Computing Online Workshop. Would you direct me to it?

Just found out about this class - excited to catch up :)

Really enjoying workshops & examples. Great ideas for student projects. Thanks to all involved.

I know the class is over but I'd like to use some of the material from the class. Is the class material still available? Thanks, Vicki

I was just remembering some content from the course that I want to get right.. and am having trouble getting back to the full course documents. I hope we can still see the whole course?

I was just remembering some content from the course that I want to get right.. and am having trouble getting back to the full course documents. I hope we can still see the whole course? When I try to log in, I'm getting a server error. As planning is happening for the new year now, is it possible to get back to the class docs again? An update: it works fine in Firefox but not in Chrome.

