Thanks to everyone who joined us at MITfor the Intro Scratch Workshop for Educators last Saturday! Here are some reflections and resources from the session... Attendees Cristina Abell Jesse Abrams Liz Breen Caitlin Browne Kelly Burger Lawrence Burns Dan Callahan Josh Conescu Stacia Copeland Carolyn Dubois Sarah Dunton Stephanie Fiano John Gomes Norma Gordon Dea Haupt Joshua Lopes Helen Mastico Barbara McFall Holly Meleski Danika Mendis Madhvi Patil Patricia Pepin Noah Ratzan Betsye Sargent Annie Smith Jennifer Smith Terry Watterson Jennifer Wiley-Cordone Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Ricarose Roque Mnica Oliver You can connect with other participants by leaving comments on their profile page. Summary We organized the 4-hour workshop around sessions #1 and #2 of the newScratch curriculum guide. Upon arrival, each participant received a Scratch Starter Kit, which included a copy of the curriculum guide, Scratch Cards, and other fun Scratch resources to help them get started. Over lunch, Karen presented an overview of Scratch and showed the range of possibilities through a variety of Scratch projects. This was followed by the Something Surprising activity (session #1 in the guide) facilitated by Karen and Ricarose. What followed was an explosion of creativity as participants were given an hour and a half of hands-on building time to explore and develop their own Scratch projects. The creations ranged from interactive collages and stories to games and simulations. Afterwards, we held a gallery walk and impromptu Show & Tell session for participants to share their work with one another. Then the workshop ended with Karen guiding reflection and group discussion. You can view photos from the event on ScratchEd'sFlickr page Resources Here are resources that were shared during the workshop: Scratch curriculum guide draft -http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/scratch-curriculum-guide-draft Scratch cards -http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/scratch-cards Scratch online community -http://scratch.mit.edu Future Events Meet and share with other educators atScratch Educator Meetups, held every first Saturday of the month. The next meetup is Saturday, February 3, 10am to 1pm -http://feb2012meetup.eventbrite.com Join us online every last Wednesday of the month forScratchEd Webinar Wednesday, where we discuss different Scratch-related topics. The next webinar is "My First Scratch Project" on Wednesday, January 25 at 7pm -http://scratchedwebinarjan2012.eventbrite.com Save the date!Scratch Day 2012is on May 19, 2012 -http://day.scratch.mit.edu The biennial Scratch conference will be held this summer, July 25-28 at MIT. - http://events.scratch.mit.edu/conference Find out about otherupcoming eventson our Events page. Keep In Touch Follow us on Facebook (ScratchEd Team) or Twitter (@ScratchEdTeam) or email us at scratched@scratch.mit.edu Thanks again and we hope to hear from you or see you at the next ScratchEd event!

