Hi everyone, I'm new here even though I started using Scratch with my students (better said pupils) a bit more than a month ago. Thanks to the PDF cards, I managed to show them various ways of using Scratch, yet I have met a lot of annoying troubles and I doubt I am the only one. So here is a list of met troubles. I'm using Firefox 35xx under Windows 7 if anyone cares to know :) But when I made some attempts with Internet Explorer, I also met the same problems. - Clicking a sprite with the right button has no effect at all, no popping menu shows. - Unfortunately when this happens, the "copy" or "delete" buttons on top of screen do not react at all either. - When resizing a sprite, its moves seems a bit erratic as if the original size was still being used... As a consequence when going up and then right, for instance, the sprite seems to jump suddenly . - Sometimes the sprite goes off screen, while it (hopefully) still appears at the bottom of the screen. Yet I cannot bring it back on screen, all I can do is delete it with a right click. - Sometimes when I insert a second sprite, it won't move at all nor even appear on screen. - I still miss a button that would bring the sprite back to its initial position (also cancel moves, rotations and special effects all at once) That's quite enough for a start, I really hope someone can help me out since I'm wasting a lot of time trying to get things to work properly. Thank you for your help !

HiS_bastien, I'm sorry to hear that you're having problems using Scratch. Here are a few tips for these two issues you mentioned: - Sometimes the sprite goes off screen, while it (hopefully) still appears at the bottom of the screen. Yet I cannot bring it back on screen, all I can do is delete it with a right click. - I still miss a button that would bring the sprite back to its initial position (also cancel moves, rotations and special effects all at once) You can click on the "go to x:0 y:0" and "point in direction 90" blocks in the Motion category, which will move your sprite to the center of the screen and point it towards the right. Under the Looks category, the "clear graphic effects" block will clear all special effects such as color. These are also useful blocks to use to reset your sprites at the beginning of your project. You can do this by placing these blocks directly under the "When green flagged clicked" block to initialize your sprites' positions and looks each time you start your project. Regarding the other problems you are encountering, I would suggest that you write to the MIT Scratch Team to let them know you are having issues. I'm not sure if it's a browser issue, but if there is a bug with the Scratch interface, but they might want to know or have more information on how to resolve it. You can contact them at help@scratch.mit.edu. I hope that helps! Sincerely, Michelle, on behalf of the ScratchEd Team

Hi Michelle, Thank you for your reply, any help is welcome :) Well maybe next time I should start with placing that "reset" button on screen so that the kids don't have to ask for me any help any moment :) As forthe other problems, I can hardly believe I am the only one encountering them. Besides the last time I contacted the Scratch Team it took them a week to get back to me. Honestly at the moment I will simply stop using Scratch as it takes too much of my time in preparation and I get so little help from anyone :( But I will get back to it soon or later :)

Another option you might be interested in is using the off-line version of Scratch, available for download athttp://scratch.mit.edu/scratch2download. M

To be honest, I started with downloading the offline editor but the latest version is not available in French (well I guess you need to visit my profile to actually see that I'm French :)). I downloaded version 1.4 which is the latest version in French as far as I know but I'm wondering why the layout is so different from the online editor... The kids who tried it say they don't know how to find the commands we used at school. Last but not least, with respect to the translators, the commands don't bear the same names in the offline and online editors... It all makes things trickier.

