Mosteducators seem to beusing Scratch to teach computer science and programming skills. However, I'm looking for something a little different - Scratch programsto teach standard primary schoolsubjects like math, science, ESL, geography, etc. I'm also hoping to find programs that can serve as self-teaching lessonsof these standard subjects without requiringany teacher input. I'd like to create an extensivecollection of top-quality Scratch programs. There are some such programs available on the Scratch website, but sorting through everything and testing the programs to find sophisticated, top-qualitylessons is extremely time-consuming. I'd like to know if anybody has put together such acollection already or is interested in helping create one. I'm also looking for volunteers interested inhelping tocreate sophisticated lessons that use good teaching strategies to teach standard subjects for grades K-7. BACKGROUND: I run a very smallnonprofit that works with primary schoolsin remote villages in Lesotho (Africa) where there are few teachers and the quality of teaching is extremely poor.There are usually 50-70 students per classroom andone teacher mayteach up tothree grades, so students get virtually no individual attention or feedback. Practically all the students lag 3-4 grade levels behind U.S. standards. We've set up locally-run programs that uselaptops as an educationaltool, not only to supplement the teachers' work but alsotohelp the children teach themselves, requiring little or no assistance from theirteachers. CONSTRAINTS: We arecurrently using refurbished One Laptop Per ChildXO-1 laptops, run by solar panels.We'd hoped the software that came with the XO laptops would be sufficient for students to learn on their own, but we've found it grossly inadequate. There is no internet available in the area, so we cannot use web-based resources. The XOlaptops have a unique Linux operating system called Sugar. Because of this, many existing programs and resources will not run on the laptops.Fortunately, Scratch does run on them, though they only have Scratch 1.4 right now. USING SCRATCH: None of our volunteers are trained computer programmers, but some of themcan use Scratch. We'ved decided Scratch is the easiest tool for us to use to reach our goal, whichis eventually to create an entire curriculum of self-teaching, interactivecomputer lessons. We've created a limited number of lessons so far. We've found that, because the lessons offer instant feedback the students have never gotten before,their' skills improve quickly and dramatically when they use these lessons. That's why I'm asking for your help. It's an ambitious project, but I think it's worthwhile. And hopefully, it is something that can be used bychildren andschools in other developing nations that alsodon't have access to the internet.

Hi, I'm sorry no one has replied until now but I'd like to try to help. I have used Scratch for teaching many topics such as maths, science, geography and English. Generally we have internet access but its not essential. I've started making a small studio with examples of projects made by me and others for different topics: https://scratch.mit.edu/studios/891302/ Please let me know if that helps or what specifically you need more help with.

