I had the pleasure of sitting in on the monthly Scratch professional learning community that was spearheaded by Karen Randall. (You can check out notes from prior meetings on ScratchEd here, here, and here.) Many interesting threads were explored, but one that I thought would be particularly interesting to bring to ScratchEd is around advocacy, as raised by Patrice Gans. That is, if you're excited about Scratch, how do you help others understand that excitement and express what young people get out of participating? One path is to talk with young people and see how they describe about what they're doing:What do the young people you work with say about their Scratch experiences? How could those reflections help advocate for Scratch?

In this conversation, Karen made the excellent point that while Scratch is a cool thing on its own, its advocacy is about more than introducing students to computer programming. I am wondering if anyone has put together supportive reasearch, summary papers, or proposals in advocating for Scratch with district decision makers, including the thinking, creating, and self-motivated learning aspects.  If so, would you be willing to share them here? Frank Sabat_ explained his success in supporting Scratch around Barlcelona, Spain this way: "I talk to people." At what sorts of organizations, conference or meeting sessions have people shared Scratch? Where should we as teachers be sure that Scratch is on the agenda?

I am interested in creating a Scratch Computer Programming advocacy group. I believe it would help when speaking with school officials. Perhaps a loosely formed group that believes in promoting computer programming through the use of Scratch in the K-12 curriculum. Please respond if you are interested. Thanks, Vicki Gold

Last week for some unknown reason the department of education in Queensland Australia blocked the Scratch site to students. Getting an explanation is impossible but I'll wager a strong message from the Scratch team might wake them up. Kids I teach in Special Education are flabbergasted.

I am definitely very interested in furthering the goal of promoting computer programming in K-12 education. I would be happy to participate in any advocacy group. I am currently a member of CSTA(Computer Science Teachers Assocation http://csta.acm.org/ ), whoes main goal is to promote the teaching of computer science (in K-12). I am presently running for a position on the board asthe K-8 representative. I believe that computer science, which is at the core of the development of new technologies, should be taught to all students.Teaching computer science is essential to the development of critical thinking and problem solving skills. Computers are an integral part of life in the 21st century, and our schools have an obligation to prepare our students for the future. Traditionally, students are first exposed to computer science in high school as part of an AP computer science class.However, I believe it is extremely important to grab students attention long before their first AP course. Consequently, I believe that the age which students are taught critical computer skills is an important issue. It seems that Scratch would be the ideal avenue for introducing younger students to basic programming concepts while at the same time igniting their curiosity and imagination. In regards to advocacy, the first step would be to push for legislation that requires computer skills in the k-12 curriculum. A bill had been proposed, The Computer Science Education Act (of 2010), http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bill.xpd?bill=h111-5929, but did not make past committee.I believe a more united effort is needed for this to come to fruition. Lets work together to make this happen for our students and our schools.

Hi Vicki, Let's talk! :) Patrice

Interesting to think about your coments in comparison to the newly elevated profile for engineering in US elementary schools. It is part of our (Minnesota) science standards, but we have no state standards for technology or computer science. How did that leaf of the STEM (Science Math Engineeering Technology) conversation move forward?

I feel that Scratch is a great way of introducing CS into schools. In Scotland the education system has for a good few years now always had some form of computing on the curriculum. Until the recent change it was the 5-14 curriculum and this for part had use of Logo to teach children about control etc. Now there has been a change and the new curriculum still mentions to an extent control but moreso there is a specific CSelement of it,which incorporates playing games through to making games http://www.ltscotland.org.uk/learningteachingandassessment/curriculumareas/technologies/eandos/index.asp Iam now looking at getting more schools on board with Scratch through my PhD and primary school children's learning.

Since Karen Randall has decided to end her participation in the monthly ScratchPLC meetings, Patrice Gans and I thought this might be the perfect time to see if the group would be interested in taking on more of a community activist role. The group would be comprised of like-minded educators whose goal is to effect change on the grass roots level to promote computer programming in the K-12 curriculum, in after-school programs, and in the home. As a whole, we do not have to be a homogeneous group to be effective; we can come from different perspectives, have different agendas, and have different teaching and learning styles. What we will have in common is a desire to promote the use of Scratch as a means by which to facilitate substantive changes to the approach to how we teach 21st Century skills. Please respond if you are interested. Thanks, Vicki Gold

Hi Vicki I am greatly interested in what you would like to do, bringing scratch to schools is my main interest(see below) Amanda :)

Disregard - pushed the save button twice.

Hi, Amanda and Keith I'm sorry I haven't gotten back to you sooner, but with the school term coming to an end I've been very busy. Patrice and I are planning to put a first draft action proposal together for mid-June. If you are interested let's talk before that. Tell us when is a good time to skype. Thanks, Vicki

Vicki Sorry for taking so long to get back been busy getting a paper about Scratch fnished for a conference later on this year. I am happy to skype and best time for me is usually around/after 7pm (GMT) as im not sure skype is easily accessible in unviersity. Amanda

