Hi everyone, John Maloney sent along thisRFP for curriculum developmentfor Introduction to Computer Programmingfor Boys & Girls Clubs of America. Maybe you (or someone you know) might be interested in doing something with this around Scratch? Thanks, K Request for Proposal to Boys & Girls Clubs of America For this project, BGCA is seeking an individual or firm that can develop a project-based, age-appropriate curriculum according to the specifications included in the attached document. Demonstrated experience and expertise in youth technology curriculum development is required. Knowledge and skills in program implementation and knowledge of youth development principles is essential. Knowledge of Boys & Girls Clubs programming and the national Boys & Girls Clubs Movement and its mission, core philosophy and goals is helpful, but not required. All materials developed for the program will become the property of BGCA. Project Background This project gives the more than 1 million youth across the country and on military bases (overseas), who participate in Boys & Girls Clubs Technology Programs, the opportunity to further enhance their technology skills and job readiness through the use of more advanced learning tools. The Introduction to Computer Programming curriculum further enhances the educational offerings of local Boys & Clubs and provides youth with exposure to the 21stcentury learning opportunities needed to succeed in todays job market. Scope of Work The scope of work includes, but is not limited to, the following: Interview BGCA staff and local Club technology instructors to determine needs. Outline a program structure based on key BGCA staff and local Club technology instructors' input. Develop the print - based facilitators guide and activities for the curriculum including an interactive or video component Create detailed direct-delivery session plans for each program project. Develop an evaluation process for field-testing the program in local Clubs via the Web; incorporate testing results into overall program design and individual lesson plans. Deliver all content in the requested format which includes video or interactive media and the webpage which will house the curriculum components. Bidding Procedure Bidders can submit quotes on company documentation as outlined in the attached document. Respond via e-mail to Cindy Rondeau, Director, MIRACLES, Boys & Girls Clubs of America, at crondeau at bgca.org no later than Friday, Augusta 28, 2009 at 5 P.M. EST.

