The following is a class project I am planning on having my grade 10-12 Computer Literacy class tackle. Do you have any suggestions for other criteria to include for this project. Any related ideas ? Contact me through the ScratchEd site or email me: hmoyer@pittsfield.k12.nh.us herb.moyer@comcast.net Thanks, Herb Moyer Scratch Culture Project You may work alone or in teams of two. Create a Scratch program that celebrates, describes, epitomizes, teaches, or displays some aspect of teenage culture and teenage life. Here are the minimum requirements. Meeting these will get you some range of a B- to C grade. Exceeding them will give you a greater chance of getting an A: 1. You must include at least four different backgrounds or costumes of a background theme. 2. You must include at least seven different sprites (that does not include different costumes of a single sprite). 3. You must either include music or audio (sounds or spoken words). 4. You must include at least 25 different commands. 5. It may be educational, funny, sad, tragic, poetic, historic, or any other adjective or adverb you can ascribe to it or describe it with. Suggestions: * Try your best to be creative * Get ideas from your classmates by showing your progress to them along the way through the development of the project * Look at a range of other student Scratch projects for ideas and code writing help * Go online to use the Scratch help, forums, support, etc. Go to www.scratch.mit.edu * Use the Help menu within Scratch * Ask for help; ask for help; ask for help * Have fun !!

hmm maybe. . . Have an easily identifiable purpose for your project. Have a clearly defined target audience for your project.

I really like this theme! I hope you'll share the output from the class. I think the framing and constraints of the project seem reasonable. While I don't necessarily have suggestions for changing the project parameters or suggestions, I wondered how the project is being introduced. Is this their first Scratch project? Are you going to show sample projects of what this project might look like? Ah, one picky legal-ese style suggestion for the project parameters: I assume that the students will know that "including backgrounds or costumes" also implies programming those elements to change, not just to have them there, but not visible... :) K

Karen, Thanks for the suggestions. No, this is not their first project, but I have one really recalcitrant High School Junior who can't think of any concept to base a project on. Today, he came up with a picture of the local Police Station as the background and wants to program a sprite to throw an egg at it. So, being ever-so-grateful that he even thought of something, I started to show him how to create costumes of a person in different positions to simulate throwing an egg. I also have a very talented Senior in that class, and I am anxiously looking forward to what she creates. Thanks for the reminder to use the hide command to hide a background/costume. Herb

Thanks Rick, I hadn't thought about a specific target audience for which the students are creating; good idea. I see the purpose as a way to get my students being creative about something that they can relate to...instead of my assigning a specific topic or set of instructions that they have to make happen. Regards, Herb Moyer

