Come to Scratch@MIT and explore the ideas, applications, and joys of Scratch. Since the first conference in July 2008, the Scratch community has continued to grow and evolve, bringing in new people, new places, and new practices. Join educators, researchers, developers, and other members of the worldwide Scratch community to reimagine, rethink, and remix ideas about learning and teaching with Scratch. We will gather at thenew Media Lab buildingon the campus of Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to: share stories of how Scratch is being used in homes, classrooms, and community centers participate in hands-on workshops, to learn new Scratch techniques and strategies discuss research examining how and what kids learn with Scratch explore future directions for Scratch with members of the MIT Scratch Team Everyone is invited tosubmit proposalsfor posters, demonstrations, presentations, panel discussions, and workshops (deadline: February 1). Pre-conference workshops will be held on August 11, with the main conference events taking place August 12-14. Conference registration opens on March 15.

This sounds like fun. Do you know if there will be a worldwide Community Scratch Day like last year on May 16? thanks, Mike

Yes, I'm currently working on the relaunch of the Scratch Day site. Scratch Day 2010 will be Saturday, May 22.

Ouch, we will be out of school by then.

School will be out for Scratch Day (on May 22nd) or Scratch@MIT (in August)? We tried to schedule the Scratch@MIT conference during the school summer months to make it easier for teachers to attend...

Our school ends the week before Scratch Day and we will be in session for the Scratch Conference, (hmm, wonder if someone will sponsor me, school has virtually no travel money). Carl

Will it be like world maths day? That lasts for 48 hours. I'd love to open up school on a Saturday and get parents and pupils taking part but they like challenges. I have links here in the UK with the NCETM. I don't think there would be any conflict of interest if I promoted this to teachers through the NCETM website.

We're organizing two events this year. The one described in this thread (Scratch@MIT) is a conference being hosted at MIT in August. Another event (described in a separate thread) is Scratch Day, and it sounds more like the world maths day you're describing. We're hoping that people all around the world will host their own Scratch Day events. It would be wonderful to host a Scratch event, inviting students and parents! Check out the Scratch Day site -- there is a variety of resources available to help with planning an event.

Hi Anyone else going to Scratch@MIT 2010? From Sweden? Europe? Asia? The World? For the swedish people: I raised money from the national fund called Atlas, Programkontoret. But now its too late for this year, just a tip for next event... What is Boston famous for (except MIT, scratch and such intresting matters)? Is there a livemusic culture, with blues, jazz....? Modern Art? I will "spend" a few days BS (Before Scratch) just for fun... with sighseeing. Anything you recommend? Must see? Must visit? See you in Boston, Anders

I'm not from Boston, but here's two things I enjoyed while visiting there. The major "everyone does it" tourist activity in Boston is walking the Freedom Trail in Boston. It introduces you to the people and places of revolutionary Boston. Even though it is crowded, just walking the line from one location to the next was a good introduction to the downtown cityscape. http://www.thefreedomtrail.org/ The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is a small collection of absolutely the best art work. It was put together in the early part of the century by a woman of independent mind, housed in a beautiful building with a central courtyard, and also famous for an unsolved painting theft. http://www.gardnermuseum.org/

Hi Karen Sorry, I didnt respond to your answer earlier. Thanks for the your tip. It will be great to discover Boston. Freedom trail, absolutely. And Gardner museum sounds like a museum for me... So Boston... here I come :) I sure will bring my joggingshoes as well...

