Scratch V2.0 Breakout Session - August 11, 2012 with Mitch Resnick The focus of Scratch v2.0 is to put it on the Web. Future considerations for a Tablet? It currently works on the Android but is not good Next big design effort is to have Scratch work on tablets. Add a Scrolling background - multiple requests v1.4: Currently Scratch works locally on my PC and projects can be uploaded to the Scratch website but I cannot modify a website projects code dynamically. v2.0: There is a new See code button and a Backpack area See code: Displays code: displays a website project sprite and the code for its blocks (methods) in a script area Modify code: Allow me to dynamically change the the sprites code and test it. Backpack Save blocks: drag the sprite or the code blocks to my backpack area Use blocks: drag the new sprite or code blocks into my project to use Sprite (Object) Custom Blocks (Methods with parameters): Sprites can now create reusable code blocks that can be shared among sprites. For example a Jump block Make Block : creates a custom block or method that is reuseable Click on Make Block - creates a new Brown custom block Name it Jump Up 10 wait 1 second Down 10 wait 1 second Can drag and drop it Parameter: To add parameters, Right click on top bar of block New brown Jump block can be dragged to the script area. Share Block between sprites Drag the new Brown Jump block into the backpack click on new sprite drag up to the new sprites script section Camera Interface - Video Motion blocks Using the PC camera, the video is full screen covering the entire stage Local motion: Sprite can act up the info and use it to make decisions. Ex: a balloon senses a hand waving motion and moves to the left or right or pops. Global motion - balloon reacts to the general global motion of a person swaying back and forth across the entire screen Cloning Create a clone of a sprite ( Instance) - create a copy of a sprite on the screen (eg. fireworks explode at the same x and y position where you click on a screen or a cat plants a tree and moves 10 steps forward. Clone is created and positioned at the same x and y position on the stage based on the center of the calling sprites or the mouse. Example: A Cat plants trees that grow and move 10 steps Cat block - Plant a tree repeat create clone of tree move 50 steps wait Tree Clone command: Grow a tree Clone startup block set size to 10% repeat 90 change size by 1 wait 0.1 seconds Create multiple instance of the Tree object on the stage Paint Editor for Vector Graphics - This is difficult to make it easy to use and it is currently buggy manipulates vector and bitmap graphics create objects Layers: objects are on separate layers move objects with arrow pointer import vector and bitmap graphics Cloud Variables write and remember a global variable on a website, which can be used for a group survey or the highest score Every user who visits the site is given and anonymous ID number and the system keeps track of who visits the site so you can limit everyone to vote only once. The ID number was implemented for privacy issues. Note: Scratch website is an open environment and doesnt allow private groups to avoid unacceptable behavior so private groups are not allowed. Teachers can create a Class Gallery so their students can post it a common area. Teacher create a Teacher account create a Class Gallery, where only the students can post to it automatically notifies when there is a new post in the Gallery can delete a student project but cannot modify a student project Students create a student account post their projects write comments Anyone can READ the comments and VIEW the projects

Where can we check for availability date? Any plans for maintaining compatibility and / or expanding with BYOB/SNAP?

