Thanks to everyone who joined us at the November 2012 Scratch Educator Meetup! Here is a recap and some reflections from the event: Attendees Below is a list of people who attended the meetup on Saturday: Sandra Bleecker Janet Dee Vicki Gold Megan Haddadi Shaleen Jain Joe Jones Lorraine Leo Colin Meltzer Barbara Mikolajczak Pamela St. Aimee Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Laura Johnson Rupangi Sharma To connect with someone from the meetup, click on a name above and leave a message on their profile page. Recap Meet up with Me - Upon arrival, each attendee filled out a networking worksheetto facilitate making connections between meetup participants. Introductions -We went around the circle and each shared our name, where we're from, and one goal for the meetup which we used to brainstorm breakout sessions. Breakout Sessions - As a group, the participants decided on two sets of two breakout sessions. During the first breakout sessions, Colin facilitated a discussion on how to support diverse learners in the classroom while Megan led a group session on hosting Scratch professional development. In the second round of breakouts, Karen hosted a design challenge with Scratch 2.0 and Pamela facilitated a group discussion around looking beyond Scratch to other programming languages. Photos- Check outphotosfrom the meetup. Breakout Sessions Click on the links below to see notes taken during the breakout sessions Supporting Diverse Students Facilitating Scratch PD Next Steps after Scratch Scratch 2.0 Design Challenge Announcements, Questions, Suggestions, and Reflections After a lunch of delicious Cosi sandwiches, salads, and cookies, everyone gathered to share news, ideas, and upcoming events: The next meetup wil be held on Saturday, December 8. Hope to see you there! Scratch 2.0 is planning on being released in early 2013! Interested in testing Scratch 2.0? Sign up here. Laura, a ScratchEd intern, is interested in learning more about people's experiences at the meetup and with other Scratch PD. Contact her to share your experiences. Rupangi, also a ScratchEd intern, is researching how Scratch is being used across the curriculum. Contact her if you or someone you know is using Scratch with core curriculum subjects. Karen is planning a Scratch 2.0 event/party/intensive/celebration for educators to learn more about the new version of Scratch. Event details TBD (and we'll make sure that there's free parking!) CSEdWeek is being celebrated December 9-15 this year. Check out the website to learn more about how you and your students can get involved. Janet announced thatthe Computer Science Teachers Association (CSTA) is having a Greater Boston chapter meeting this Spring and she encouraged meetup attendees to participate. Find out more on the CSTA website. Have suggestions for Scratch 2.0? You can share them on the 2.0 alpha site or here on ScratchEd. Join us for the next Scratch Educator Meetup on Saturday, December 8 at MIT. Registration is available at http://2012-2013meetups.eventbrite.com. Thanks for meeting up with us!

