Check out these awesome summer 2013 internships from Google for freshmen and sophomore college students. Google is invested in increasing the pipeline of future computer scientists and software developers, particularly those who are historically underrepresented in the field. Many aspiring computer scientists could benefit from a program that bridges the gap between academic study and a professional internship. Google wants to inspire these students to continue in the field with such programs.With this in mind, Google is excited to announce our summer 2013 opportunities for Freshmen and Sophomores! Freshmen Engineering Practicum What is it:Freshmen Engineering Practicum is a 12 week internship program at our Google Headquarters in Mountain View, CA. The program includes three main components: a software project, skills-based training, and professional development. Who should apply:Current freshmen majoring, or intending to major, in Computer Science or Electrical and Computer Engineering.Students who are a member of a group that is historically underrepresented in the technology industry are encouraged to apply. More information:Please visitthis sitefor more information and to apply today! The deadline to apply isFriday, February 1, 2013. Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis and we encourage students to apply early. If you have any questions, feel free to contact us atfep@google.com. Chrome Academy What is it:Chrome Academy is a week long program at our Google Headquarters in Mountain View, CA. Program participants will learn how to conceptualize and build mobile and Chrome applications. Who should apply: Current freshmen or sophomores who are majoring in Computer Science or a related field and who have proficiency (1-2 years experience) programming in Javascript, CSS, and HTML. More information: Please visitgoogle.com/students/chromeacademyfor more information and to apply. Applications open January 22nd and the deadline to apply is March 17th. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us atchrome-academy-questions@google.com. Android Camp What is it: Android Camp is a week long program at our Google Headquarters in Mountain View, CA which features interactive and collaborative Android curriculum. Participants will learn how to build Android applications from scratch! Who should apply: Current freshmen or sophomores who are majoring in Computer Science or a related field and who have proficiency (1-2 years experience) programming in Java and who have little to no experience programming in Android. More information: Please visitgoogle.com/students/androidcampfor more information and to apply. Applications open January 22nd and the deadline to apply is March 17th. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us atandroid-camp-questions@google.com.

