This issue of the ScratchNotes newsletter was sent out on February 25, 2013. ScratchNotes A seasonal newsletter for the Scratch educator community Winter 2013 Volume 4, Issue 2 Online Summer Scratch PD: June 3 - July 12 The ScratchEd Team is pleased to announce that we will be hosting a six-week, online course for teachers, beginning June 3, supported through Google's CS4HS initiative. Interested? Join the course mailing list for updates! http://bit.ly/ScratchEdOnlineCourse Getting to Know Scratch 2.0 Workshop Want to explore the new features in Scratch 2.0? The ScratchEd Team is hosting an intensive, one-day workshop for educators. This hands-on workshop will take place on Saturday, March 23, 8:30am-4:30pm, at the Harvard Graduate School of Education in Cambridge, MA. Register now online. http://gettingtoknowscratch20.eventbrite.com Spring Educator Meetups Already know Scratch, but want to meet other educators and learn more? Please join us at our free monthly Scratch educator meetups, held on the second Saturday of each month at MIT. Join local Scratch educators at upcoming meetups on March 9, April 13, and May 11. http://2012-2013meetups.eventbrite.com SIGCSE 2013: Scratch 2.0 Workshop Attending the SIGCSE Conference in Denver this March? Participate in a hands-on introduction to Scratch 2.0 on March 6, as part of the pre-conference activities. Come learn more about the next generation of the Scratch programming environment and online community. http://www.sigcse.org/sigcse2013/attendees/preSymposiumEvents.php SIGCSE 2013: Scratch Community Breakfast And if you will be at the SIGCSE Conference in Denver... Please join us on Saturday, March 9 at 7:30am for a Scratch community breakfast, where you can meet other educators working with (or interested in working with) Scratch. http://db.grinnell.edu/sigcse/sigcse2013/Program/Program.asp Scratch Day 2013 Scratch Day is a worldwide network of gatherings, where people come together to meet other Scratchers, share projects and experiences, and learn more about Scratch. Save the date -- Scratch Day 2013 is Saturday, May 18. What will your Scratch Day look like? http://day.scratch.mit.edu European Scratch Conference The first European Scratch Conference will take place this summer, July 25-27, in Barcelona, Spain. The event is being organized by several European Scratch educators and the inaugural theme is "Scratch Connecting Worlds". Find out more about the gathering and important deadlines online. http://scratch2013bcn.org Animation 13 Animation 13, the UK schools' computer animation competition, is accepting submissions -- Scratch projects welcome! -- until March. This not-for-profit competition is free to enter and organized by The University of Manchester to help enthuse young people about computer science. More details are available online. http://animation13.cs.manchester.ac.uk

