Hello everyone! Have Picoboards but no Wedo kits. Is it possible to hook up a Picoboard AND a Wedo kit to the same computer/Scratch program and get the motor to react to changes detected by the Picoboards light sensor for example? Would really like to know before ordering. Thanks! IrisSophia

Hi Yes. I tried it now. And it works, but you could only use two of the inputs/output from the WeDo. Its not possible to get all three working (tilt-, distance-sensors and motor). I havent tried to plug in two WeDo usb-units though. But you could use the picoboard lightsensor to control the WeDo-motor. My board is an older USB-Serial Scratchboard, but it should work with the USB Picoboard. Win XP... havent tried with Mac or Win 7. (Win Vista is a total disaster so I dont even get near a Vista computer... ;)) /Anders The first snowy day today....

Same. Like Anders, I just tested it out and was able to use the sensor board and WeDo simultaneously.

Thanks Anders and Karen, thats really good to know. All computers in schools all over the country have W. Vista.LOL Lots of chucklesfromthat salesman :))) Since the Picoboard works on them and on my Win 7 laptop,I'll cross my fingers. I was even considering Meshwhich allows computers on a local network to view each other's variables and see broadcasts.Theoretically, if you place sensor inputs in variables all computers could see them and one "Master" computer could control motors on other computers based on inputs from a Picoboard or whatever. I'm green with envy Anders, lived in Canada for many years and I miss the snow. But I do love beautiful sunny Portugal, so there :). IrisSophia

Hi again! By the way, is anyone out there using external sensores in Scratch? I've used thermisters, mercury tilt sensores ( was very careful), and magnetic sensores. Hoping to trade experiences and ideas... Thanks, IrisSophia aka Ana Santos

Hi IrisSophia/Ana Santos Interesting with your sensor ideas. I havent tried yet. I have seen a list of possible sensors, somewhere... dont know where. Is the full resistence 100 kOhm (Picoboard input A-D)? Or, whats the truth? By the way mercury... not a primary/secondary school...? ;) And I am willing to trade our 10-15 cm snow - 5 C Swedish weather with a 15+ C Portugese weather... :) And today I tried to connect two WeDo-usbhubs to Scratch. I didnt work, Scratch found only the first connected hub. /Anders

Ana, Ijust shared couple of resources: 1)resistive sensors Ihave used with Scratch board, (http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/resistive-sensors-scratch-board) 2)example of a lesson you may do with students using the Scratch board (http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/measure-manipulate-and-reflect) Can you share the information on other sensors you are using? Best, Claudia

Replies to Claudia and Anders: I'mglad to have found this forum. Although Scratch isn't new here I don't know anyone who has worked with the Picoboard or external Sensors.I love Math and know a bit about programming . Claudia , thanks for your answer! From below you can see I had already seen your name somewhere!I am very sad to say my laptop was stolen last year but its still all in my head and will be happy, if you're interested and given time to share code examples. Anyway I hope to redo some projects this year as well as try new ones. Wow,theidea you shared has everything to do with my views on the use of Scratch and I actually did that last year except for the humidity sensor! We saved data ( for example pairs of numbers, time and temperature )in lists , exportedas text,then opened with Excel and did all kinds of graphs. Found out aboutScratch before it was actually introduced in my country, loved it, tried to learn as much as I couldwhen I could ( time's always scarce...)and am still doing so.Portugal actually has its ownScratch site only very recently updated with Scratch 1.4.There is a very comendable organization of teachers here around Scratch.However, although Scratch is greatfor story telling and gettinglittle kids to learn basic programming skills, here I haven't really seen its useadvisedfor older kids.It has been mostly "promoted" for use in Math with 5th and 6th graders and before I prove them wrong some of my pupils say its " kiddy stuff",which is a pity when you canalsocreate interesting programs using more advanced conceptswith grades 7all the way up to12 ( get kids to create "missing operators" with exponential and logarithmic functions...) Hope to hear from you Claudia! Here are some ideas Iused: Turned a bycycle upside down, taped a magnetic sensor to one part of the bike and a little magnet to the wheel.The idea was to get the wheel to spin for a bit and calculatethings like:distance "travelled", speed and rotations per minute. Got the idea from the gadget on my husband's mountain bike. Withthe Temperature sensor got it close to really hot or cold things and with pre-recorded kids' voices you could hear " It's soooo hot" or "It's sooo cold." I had thought of a " talking" plant who would complain if its soil was too dry but didn't find a humidity sensor in Portugal ( resistive humidity sensor). I'm going to order from Rhopoint but it's going to really cost me because of shipping.Do youknow if can use this sensor to measure soil humidityas well as air humidity? Another hare brained ideaI didn't get to try was a doll with a humidity sensor on an adapted diaper. She would cry out "Change me" when water you put in her mouth trickled down to the diaper... With four mercury switches taped to a plate which was then covered with transparent hardcase with holesas a precaution andwe simulated a steering wheel which controlled a car on the screen. We were very, very careful but the Wedo tilt sensor is of course the way to go. We also filled the screen with flowers of various colours and with the light sensor placed on the screen there was this little bumble bee which flew to where the sensor was.There was only one flower of each colour and at any given time the Scratch program knew exactly what flower the light sensor was on. Anders, thanks for the info. I haven't tried Mesh but it seems to be the only way tocontrolmore than one Wedo kit. Of course you'd need morethan one computer but with shared variables and broadcasts there are a lot ofpossibilities...Regarding resistance,for exampleI used Temperature Sensor 10 K OHM, Light Sensor 5K to 20 H OHM. Electronics isn't my specialty but after finding the followinginfo I ordered a Picoboard and later on managed to get the external sensors in Portugal except the humidity sensor. Hope the following info answers some of your questions. Sorry for enormous post.Please excuse any errors! Very best regards, Ana Santos From Sensor Types and Sources:I knewyour name was familiarClaudia! The following list shows different types of sensors that have been used in Scratch Sensor Board projects. (They are typically attached to alligator clip-heads plugged into sensor board jacks A, B, C or D.) Visit the vendor site for pricing and ordering information. Name; Description ; Vendor Part Number Switch; Switch lever spdt 3A PCB; http://www.digikey.com SW773-ND. Temperature; Thermisor NTC 10K OHM 5%; http://www.digikey.com 317-1258-ND. Light; Photocell 5K-20K OHM 4.20 MM; http://www.digikey.com PDV-P9203-ND. Magnetic switch - 1; Switch Reed 10-15AT SPST .5A; http://www.digikey.com 420-1047-ND. Magnetic switch - 2; Switch Reed SPST .5A 12-23 A/T; http://www.digikey.com HE502-ND. Humidity; Consists of a metal electrode on a humidity sensitive membrane mounted on a ceramic substrate; http://www.rhopointcomponents.com SYH-1NC. Thanks to Claudia Urrea for the initial list. Note: When using resistive sensors with the XO microphone port, it appears that the interesting resistance range goes from around 2k to 5k. (Experimentally determined; your mileage may vary.) From http://scratch.mit.edu/forums/viewtopic.php?id=6403: 17. How do the sensors convert their input to values between 0-100? From the Technical Info document: "Scratch maps the 10-bit sensor data onto a 0 _ 100 scale using a mapping that is different for each sensor type. Users can access the raw 10-bit values by shift-clicking on the Scratch Board Watcher and selecting report raw data . Doing so will show sensor values in the range 0 - 1023. Most of the sensors use a generic linear conversion to report scaled values between 0 - 100. Light and sound sensors use piecewise linear functions that take into account the idiosyncrasies of those sensors. (Note that readings for light are reversed so that more light gives larger values.) Code for scaling functions [are]: Code: generic(n) return round ((100 * n) / 1023) light(n) if n < 25 return 100 - n else return round((1023 - n) * (75 / 998)) sound(n) //empirically tested noise sensor floor n = max(0, n - 18) if (n < 50) return n / 2 //noise ceiling return 25 + min(75, round((n - 50) * (75 / 580)) ) //noise floor and ceiling values might vary 18. Um. OK. But in reality, how do the resistance values relate to the sensor value? Is it linear? Nope. It's not linear. It's logarithmic. From experiments on our board, the resistance sensor value (0-100) that the PicoBoard produces is related to the actual resistance, R, (in KOhms) across the alligator clips by the something like the following equation: sensor value = a*ln(b*R+1) where, approximately: a=19.5 b=0.9 BUT, if you are only interested in low resistance values between 0-10 KOhm, the following simple relation works real well (and yep, it's linear): sensor value = a*x, where a is approximately 5.57

Hi Ana Thanks for your reply. I have orded 10 picoboards recently (waiting for delivery), so I will definitly try some of your ideas. Probably next year (if I can get a teacher interested ;)... or try with some AfterSchool activity) ....and I want to experiment with an arduinoboard as well... So many wishes and time is spread around all over the place, and I dont know how to catch it...

Hi Anders! How I know what you mean! I'm also interested inthe arduino board and arduino robotics. From what I've gathered its actually much cheaper than the picoboard but the learning curve will be verydifferentbecause theC type language isn't nearly as "kid friendly"as Scratch.I suppose kids would have to be 12 at the very least... By the way, it snowed in Portugal on November 30. Havent seen any because I live in the center near the coast.

"I'm also interested in the arduino board and arduino robotics. From what I've gathered its actually much cheaper than the picoboard but the learning curve will be verydifferentbecause theC type language isn't nearly as "kid friendly"as Scratch. " Hi guys, I'm new to this forum and all about educational technology. You guys should check out ModKit if you haven't heard about it already. It's made by these awesome guys who want programming Arduino to be as easy as Scratch. It's going public very soon. Check it out. Also- I have been developing a scratch project to teach about Arduino. It's definitely not nearly done, but the idea is there. I have been poking around a little and was unable to find anything like this on the site. I would love to share it with people in the hopes that they will take it, make it better, use it for their own classes, whatever. Like I said I haven't posted it yet (got a lot of other stuff going on) but I will shortly. I would also love to hear more about what people are doing with Scratch (and definitely Arduino) and the school systems.

Hi Lindsay Yes its interesting with the arduinoboard. If I use a photoresistor with Picoboard its easy to get started and understand what is happening (I will soon try the picoboard with kids aged 11-13, a small techproject). But the Picoboard is too expensive (escpecially if you live in Sweden and order 10 boards, I had to pay somekind of importtax nearly 100 _, puh :(....). So the arduinoboard would be perfect. But its not so easy to get going for kids. There is a little bit higher learningcurve before you are up and creating. I would be nice if you share your arduino-experiences with us. The S4A - scratchclone is interesting http://seaside.citilab.eu/scratch/arduino And the ModKit will be really promising... I stumble upon this nice video about arduino and 8-11 years old girls... even more promising :) Not sooo much Scratch, but the idea is nice... http://vimeo.com/4313755 Hmmm... I couldnt embed the video...

Hi guys (in particular Anders), I work for SparkFun Electronics. I recently posted an Arduino teaching tool I have been working on in my free time here: http://scratch.mit.edu/galleries/view/110387 It's a little complicated if you don't have experience with Arduino or Scratch or a similar product, but read the project notes for some quick instructions if you are interested. It is a ruff draft and I posted it in the hopes that other educators would understand the idea and download for further development. Feel free to use it however you like and please post any improvements to the gallery. Dedicated to educating- Linz

Hi Lindsay I will dig into your arduino teaching tool... Im a newbie in the arduinoarea, but its fun and interesting. I tried the S4A-clone today, and it works well even with one arduino - Uno and a Picoboard connected at the same time. But Im waiting for the Modkit as well... And the best part of everything is that I started a Tech/Scratchclub as an afterschool activity (not so common in Sweden...) and have 6-10 interested kids (probably more, when the words are spread). So I will work with Picoboards first... but if they are interested... arduino. And the Kinect hack... for Scratch. So it will be an interesting spring :)

