This issue of the ScratchNotes newsletter was sent out on June 5, 2012. ScratchNotes A seasonal newsletter for the Scratch educator community Summer 2012 Volume 3, Issue 4 Have 5 Minutes? Contribute To The Scratch Educator Census Are you thinking about - or have you already been - helping otherslearn about Scratch? Respond to the 2012 Scratch Educator Census andenter a raffle for Scratch starter kits, Scratch boards, and Scratchconference registration. http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/ScratchEdCensus2012 Scratch@MIT 2012 Early Registration Ends June 15 The biennial Scratch@MIT conference will be held this summer at MITin Cambridge, MA from July 25 to 28. We have an exciting program,including Connie Yowell and Jan Cuny as keynotes. Take advantage ofthe early registration rates by registering online before June 15. http://events.scratch.mit.edu/conference Reflections On Scratch Day 2012 The fourth annual Scratch Day took place on May 19, 2012, with morethan 177 events in 42 countries celebrating Scratch's fifth birthday!Reflect on the annual happenings by checking out pictures, videos,and news from gatherings around the world. http://day.scratch.mit.edu ScratchEd Profile Update Raffle Winners Thanks to all who updated their profile settings in the newly updatedScratchEd members section. Congratulations to our ten raffle winners,who will receive Scratch Starter Kits: Antonio B., Carlos Eugenio R.,Colin M., Debbie S., Julia T., Julio C., Kristyn K., Michelle H.,Scott O., and Steve K. Upcoming Webinar: Educator Year-In-Review Join members of the worldwide ScratchEd community for our freemonthly webinar series, on the last Wednesday of each month. On June27 at 7pm EDT, hang out with educators Ingrid Gustafson, Janet Dee,and Lorraine Leo as they share their experiences of working withScratch at school. Sign up online for a reminder email. http://scratchedwebinarjun2012.eventbrite.com May's Assessing Computational Thinking Webinar How do we talk about what kids are learning with Scratch? And howmight we assess that learning? Watch the recording of our May 2012webinar, where members of the ScratchEd Team describe computationalthinking and discuss approaches and strategies for assessing it. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/assessing-computational-thinking-may-2012-scratched-webinar Scratch 2.0 Preview Curious about Scratch 2.0? Check out this special preview video aboutthe new features that will be included in the next generation ofScratch, and share your feedback in the Scratch 2.0 feedback forum. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z4UIf7gDojg Modkit Micro On Kickstarter Modkit Micro is a graphical programming environment that is bringingmicrocontrollers to the world. Modkit was co-founded by LifelongKindergarten member Amon Millner. Find out more about the project andhow to get early access to Modkit on Kickstarter. http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/modkit/modkit-micro-the-easiest-way-to-program-microcontr?ref=home_leanback

