Let's Play! Game Design with Scratch Building Learning Communities (BLC) Pre-Conference Workshop Monday, July 15, 2012 1:30am-5:30pm MIT Media Lab Hosted by Mitch Resnick and Karen Brennan Side-scrollers. Quizzes. Mazes. Simulators. Young people are using Scratch to create and share a wide variety of interactive games. In the process, they learn important computational concepts (for example, using variables for keeping score and conditionals for making game decisions), while also developing general problem-solving skills and design capacities. In this hands-on introduction to game design with Scratch, participants were introduced to Scratch, learned to create games, viewed examples of games created by young people and heard how educators are using Scratch for game design. Players To contact another participant, click on their name below to leave a comment on their profile. Molly Buttitta John Egan Anne Marie Fries Janet Gray-McKennis Angelica Guerrero Mary Anne Hamilton Miguel Marquez Larissa Perkins Siobain Perkins Frank Slabaugh Mitch Resnick Karen Brennan Michelle Chung Level 0: How to play Continuing from the morning workshop, we discussedWhat is Scratch?What is Scratch good for? computer programming software animation creation software outlet for creativity express logical thinking storytelling multimedia working collaboratively grow problem solving skills 21st century learning empowering kids to be self-directed learners Level 1: You game? What's your favorite game?What makes a game a game? Here are some of the elements of game design that we brainstormed: competitive or cooperative strategy multiplayer or single player fun skill development goals or objectives Then, Karen shared some example game projects in the genre of games: Ten Levels Alien of My Own Spikefur Clothing Design Game Fade Tennis Level 2: A-maze-ing In this activity, the group collectively built maze examples and then brainstormed ways of extending the play. Here are sample projects to help you extend your maze: adding score adding timer adding enemies adding rewards adding more levels Level 3: Lets Play Participants were then given the option to work on individual Scratch projects or join mini breakout sessions to dive deeper into Scratch: pen tool variables lists Here are some other helpful resources. Scratch cards Gamebuilder activitiesfrom theScratch Curriculum Guide Scratch website Sample game projects More Scratch game projects You Win! Check outphotosfrom this playful session or find out what happened at the morningdigital storytellingsession. Here are a few suggestions for next steps: Share projects! - Upload your projects on the Scratch website and add them to the BLC2012 gallery. Explore resources! - Find lesson plans, activities, handouts, and other Scratch materials in our Resources section. Connect with others! - Connect with other BLCers or find educators local to you by searching in our Members section. Get updates! - Follow ScratchEd Team onTwitterandFacebookto stay informed on the latest Scratch news or events. Contact us! - We'd love to hear from you or answer any questions. Drop us a note atscratched@scratch.mit.edu.

Thanks again to everyone who joined us for an a-maze-ing time at the "Game Design with Scratch" pre-conference session! We've posted some suggestions for next steps above. Until next time, we look forward to seeing you on Scratch and ScratchEd! Enjoy the rest of the BLC conference!

