About The Code-to-Learn Foundation As a new nonprofit foundation,Code-to-Learnis changing the way the world sees coding. We believe coding represents a new form of literacya tool for people to express themselves creatively and share ideas with others. We focus specifically onScratch, a programming language developed by the MIT Media Lab that encourages young people to create interactive stories, animations, games, music, and art. With Scratch, young people can think creatively, reason systematically, and work collaborativelyessential skills for everyone in todays society. We are hiring a Communications Specialist who will help drive and implement the Foundation's communications and community engagement strategies, and will support our mission to make creative coding more accessible and appealing to young people. Responsibilities Strengthen the Foundations media strategy: Develop, distribute, and share meaningful content through various media channels including Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Google Plus Build a media schedule and manage day-to-day content development Expand Code-to-Learns messaging through digital channels, in-person events, and advocacy campaigns Research, write, and edit a variety of materials, including blog posts, messaging, newsletters, conference materials, and original feature stories about kids, creativity, and coding Provide media support to Scratch-related projects and events Qualifications & Skills Bachelors degree required, preferably in journalism, creative writing, or communications 2+ years experience writing for an organization, meeting deadlines, and working with a team Strong writing skills and a passion for telling stories. An ability to synthesize complex technical ideas into language that is accessible and compelling for external audiences is preferred Knowledge of some combination of: education technologies, digital media & learning initiatives, creative expression, informal learning, and/or education practices is a plus An existing social media profile that demonstrates the ability to use media channels effectively A desire to work in a start-up environment and contribute to the growth of a new organization with a strong educational mission How to Apply: Please include a cover letter along with your resume when you apply for this position. The cover letter should demonstrate your strong writing skills, your salary requirements, and why you would be a good fit for this role. Please send your materials tocareers@codetolearn.organd include Communications Specialist in the subject line of the email. This position is based in the Washington, DC area. We look forward to hearing from you!

