In preparation for our final day of Creative Computing tomorrow, it would be great to know what you hope to ask/get/know/share before our time together is over. Let's start a list...

I'd love to hear about past curriculums that have been used to introduce Scratch to children and how successful they have or have not been. As well as any interesteing or unexpected results.

I am hoping to learn more about the operator and variable blocks and how they can be used with students to introduce/reinforce mathematical concepts. I am also interested in hearing more from your team as to how Scratch can be used most effectively with students to really improve and deepen their problem-solving skills.

Are there any established curriculum for HSstudents available? Also, it would be great to see what other features are available, so we can explore them on our own....just knowing what is there will be very useful..

I have some materials that might be helpful for other people. I would also like to know if anyone is on Twitter. I am @lizbdavis. Please share your username here if you have one. I have a lesson plan here for a week long Scratch games unit: http://docs.google.com/View?id=dfnmfqtd_1479dnmd85g4 Here is a link to my delicious links on scratch: http://delicious.com/lizbdavis/scratch-lessonplan Here is a video "scratchumentory" I made last year about my student's experience with scratch: http://edtechpower.blogspot.com/2008/11/scratch-success.html I would also like to invite everyone to attend the free Edubloggercon conference in Boston on July 28th which Iam helping to organize: http://www.edubloggercon.com/BLC2009

Thank you so much for a fun-filled workshop. I can't wait for my Computer Graphic students to explore and create projects. Are there specific interactive projects or games dealing with Internet Safety or Intellectual Property in Scratch?

Can we develop an Essential Question with Enduring Understandings that we could use for an Introduction to Programming Using Scratch high school course together? This backwards design approach will drive planning projects and individual lesson plans. Liz thanks for sharing your links, I am eager to take a look and "ReMix" for my school.

I would like there to be a list/ database/ site of e-mail address so that we can keep in touch with each other, and be able to ask for help. This workshop was great!

I would also like to hear about how to introduce scratch to kids, especially upper elementary aged kids. I always feel there needs to be a bit of an overview or intoduction. Would you create a few sprites, demonstrate a few scripts. I'd love to hear dome of your experiences.

i'd love a copy of Mitch's tennis game simulation, and the graphics files of all the scratch commands (to use on the smart board for modeling code in front of class)

I would also like the tennis script. Third and fourth graders have such a hard time with probability and statistics. I can see the students remixing this script, making it their own setting/theme and sharing their understanding of the concept.

Do you think that Leah might be willing to post her powerpoint presentation to the ScratchEd site? It would be great to be able to view it again at a later time and be able to show the students technology with other mediums. I might also like to try some take on the projects myself.

Can you show us how to use pen in scripts?

The workshop has been a great balance of activities and information. I am still interested in figuring out if a scratch clip could be imported into a video (dvd) created using final cut express. Also, thanks to Liz for sharing her posts, and I also think a group email contact list would be nice!

Leah's projects were really interesting. At my last district, we offered a menu of afternoon enrichment activities twice a week; the students paid a reasonable fee for the activities and they provided an opportunity to work with small groups of students in a different context. I am going to let them know about the Lilly Pads and Scratch; I would love it if there were funds to do this type of programming in Lowell. Is anyone aware of any grants that would support something like this?

I would love to take a quick tour of the Lifelong Kindergarten lab. We visited the 2nd floor labs but not the labs on the first floor including the most important one!

The workshop has been perfect - moving from demonstration and hands on kept it moving smoothly and kept my learning up. I plan to use quite a few of your introduction methods with my students. I am very excited about the gaming workshop we wil be attending today. Iuse many games with the students to introduce, instruct and reinforce content knowledge and they love it. If you haven't used Medmyst from Rice Univ. - you might want to check it out. It is all about Infectious Disease and I think they have done a wonder job! The URL is http://medmyst.rice.edu/ Liz thank you for your links on lessons - these will be very helpful.

