These are reflections share by participants during the final discussion at Creative Computing 2012. Now, I think of creative computing as... Creative computing is where design-based learning meets computational thinking and they DANCE! Creative computing has evolved into a new way of looking at the world and using technology to express yourself AND solve problems. I originally thought Scratch was a tool for teaching computing. I now think it is a way to teach almost anything. My thoughts on creative computing have really changed. This is the first time I've been shown a path to a philosophy as second nature and extremely relevant simple or complex, multi-dimensional, inspiring, engaging, allows "winning", doable Scratch is very powerful and can engage ALL age levels, very good learning experience My idea of computational computing includes many more concepts and ingredients The workshop created a very safe, collaborative environment where I became more creative Far more complex. Scratch shows few limits and can be used to create so many examples and things. Creative computing involves synthesizing various media to communicate ideas. less intimidated I never realized that serious computing skills could be introduced in such a fun, creative way. Scratch is a great tool to hook young students, especially female, into further studies in computer science. using computers intelligently in a manner that is healthy and rewarding My perspective has been widened. I knew that before but no one else does at my school, so I need to expand their view. works in progress that are shared, repeat forever: imagine, create, play, share, reflect I designed, created, personalized, collaborated, and reflected (a lot!). freedom, collaboration, problem solving involving everyone, not just us computer instructors awesome! inclusive! exciting! I think about creative computing in the same way I think about making art or other projects. I am very process-oriented but I can be frustrated. Working in "small chunks" can help me keep things simple. It's for everyone regardless of ability, age, etc! organizational thinking personalization The Media Lab was an eye opener! Wow wow wow (jealous) learning different approaches accessible, concrete, fun, challenging, creative expression, collaborative, experiment When I return to my students, I plan to... I've already made plans to present to my local ed tech group. I've also contacted my super about presenting, and I'm still here use different exercises use Scratch in the computer science classroom and Scratch in a meditation I will give and Scratch in the math department foster more creativity: offer more choice with projects find more ways to integrate computers and Scratch into existing curriculum Scratch has a much wider use than I first thought so I need to get other teachers involved and excited get them creating and producing with Scratch use Scratch with my students, along with the other "stuff" in the class revise lessons, chunk learning, break parts into manageable activities introduce the students to the connection between Scratch and robotics Design-based learning is a great new approach for my room. Reflect is so important! create a project notebook I am excited to take Scratch back to my school and use with my middle school students. The resources will help guide me. use the Scratch cards as "mini-lessons" within the sixth grade choice-based program I look forward to seeing how my kinds' input will change the way I approach things. I will load Scratch and start using it in my fourth grade class. I plan to incorporate the creative design model into my classroom. I'm bringing back new teaching methods for my work with teachers as well as with students. I plan to use Scratch in the beginning of the CS classes to aid in describing OOP. Scratch Scratch Scratch! need to get as many students as are interested to start on Scratch and share EVERYTHING!! I will give my students more "play" time. I'm excited about how this can be used in art. I can't wait to take this back. increase flexibility and freedom introduce game design into curriculum attend Scratch Day, interact with educators on ScratchEd, show teachers and students that they can create games that accommodate learners' needs create bulletin boards for students to post: goals, reflections, challenges/questions (like we did in the Media Lab)

