Original post on Idealist. Overview The Scratch Foundation is a young nonprofit organization dedicated to providing creative learning tools for children (scratchfoundation.org). It focuses specifically on Scratch, a free programming language and online community developed at the MIT Media Lab (scratch.mit.edu). Scratch is used by millions of children to create and share interactive stories, games, and animations. The Development Manager is a new position, intended to significantly scale up the Foundation's fundraising activities. The Development Manager will report to and work closely with the Foundation's Executive Director to build the development infrastructure and function for the Foundation, and will have a unique opportunity to engage with key partners. This position is an ideal opportunity for someone who wants to contribute to a fast-growing, mission-driven initiative that is transforming the lives of children around the world. The Development Manager can be based in either Washington DC, Boston, or New York. Responsibilities The Development Manager will play a central role in all aspects of fundraising, collaborating with the Executive Director to create a fundraising plan that includes individual giving, corporate, and foundation support. The Development Manager will also manage donor communications and research, and oversee the donor database. Donor Identification & Stewardship Research and identify corporate, individual, and foundation prospects at all giving levels. Process donations and prepare acknowledgement letters and other correspondence. Expand donor outreach and engagement. Communications Manage content development and delivery for newsletters, social media, mailings, programs, presentations, and correspondence. Events & Initiatives Assist in developing the strategy, managing the logistics, and executing activities for the Scratch 10th Anniversary Campaign and the Foundation's annual benefit dinner in New York. Administration & Data Management Oversee the Foundation's development database, and maintain up-to-date information for all prospects, donors, proposals, reports, schedules, communications, and relationships. Assist the Executive Director with Board of Directors meetings and other events as needed. Qualifications Bachelor's degree Three to five years experience in development work. Experience with annual fund management, institutional giving, and/or individual giving. Demonstrated ability to write compelling, clear, jargon-free material. Familiarity with eTapestry development database a plus, but not required. Ability to travel to Boston, New York, Washington DC, and San Francisco several times per year. Must be comfortable working independently in a startup-like environment with a small staff and a geographically dispersed team. Please email your cover letter and resume to: info@scratchfoundation.org and include the words "Development Manager" in the subject line of the email.

