Hi everyone, I am working in The Northern Territory with OLPC Australia and the NT Education Department. All our Internet traffic passes through proxy servers. I have discovered the scratch.ini file can be used to define the proxy server and port on MS windows computers. Does any one know the syntax for defining the proxy username and password? We are also tring to identify the equivalent configuration file for Scratch in both the Sugar and Gnome versions for use with the OLPC XO laptops. Hoping someone has already solved this challenge. Cheers Ian

Hi, Ian. This page has some information about the proxy settings: http://info.scratch.mit.edu/Network_Installation I believe the proxy mechanism should work on all platforms, not just Windows. For the XO, the configuration file is Scratch.ini in the Scratch folder. I think that works in Gnome as well as Sugar, but I haven't tested it. Note: If you use the Linux version of Scratchinstead of the XO version, then the configuration file is.scratch.ini in the user's home folder. But I recommend using the XO version of Scratch on the XO, even under Gnome. -- John

Hi John, I have not been able to find any ini/conf files for Scratch in the Sugar environment. A search of the /home/olpc/Activities/Scratch.activity/ and sub directories did not yield any results. I installed scratch-1.4.0.1-1.i386 as super user and the Scratch.ini file resides in /usr/lib/scratch/directory. The ProxyServer= and ProxyPort= lines in the scratch.ini file (http://info.scratch.mit.edu/Network_Installation) work when the proxy server does not require a username and password. However, the scratch upload fails when a proxy server authentication is required. My instinct tells me that there are a couple of additional lines required in the scratch.ini file  which define the username and password for proxy authentication. Cheers Ian

Hi, Ian. Unfortunately, Scratch does not support proxies that require authentication. Perhaps you can convince your IT folks to run a proxy server that does not requireauthentication... On the XO, even if there is not already a Scratch.ini file in the Scratch.activity folder, you can create one with a text editor add the proxy lines. Make sure that the file is readable by world so the Scratch activity can read it. On Fedora, I'm pretty sure Scratch ignores the Scratch.ini file in /usr/lib/scratch (which probably shouldn't have been included) and uses the file .scratch.ini in the user's home folder instead. You can test this by switching languages, then verifying that ~/.scratch.ini was created. (Scratch records the language setting in that file.) Hope that helps... -- John

Many thanks John for your support. Cheers Ian

