The MIT Women's Technology Program (WTP) is a rigorous four-week summer academic and residential experience where female high school students explore engineering through hands-on classes, labs, and team-based projects in the summer after 11th grade. The application is available athttp://wtp.mit.edu/application.htmland thedeadline is January 1, 2012. Their goal is to spark high school girls' interest in the future study of engineering and computer science. About the program Students attend WTP in either: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) Mechanical Engineering (ME) WTP is designed for girls who have already demonstrated their ability to excel at math and science in their high school classes, but who have very little or no prior background in engineering or computer science. Female MIT graduate students design and teach the classes, assisted by female MIT undergraduate students who also live in the dorm with the high school girls. The daily required schedule includes classes, labs, homework, and social time with other WTP students. WTP classes do not earn academic credit from MIT; WTP students are expected to work hard because they are excited about learning. Sixty participants (40 for EECS and 20 for ME) are selected from a nationwide applicant pool of the top female 11 th grade math and science students. Students must reside in the U.S. (or be U.S. citizens if living outside the U.S. ). We are looking for students who are not yet certain about their future college majors, and who would like to explore engineering and computer science to determine whether these fields might be of interest. Who should apply Female students now in grade 11 who: love and excel at math and science, ?but have very little or no prior experience in engineering or computer science would like to experience hands-on activities where they design and build engineering projects enjoy problem solving and collaborative learning ? want to spend 4 summer weeks challenging their minds, working very hard in an intense academic environment, and making friends with girls from around the U.S. who share their math and science interests and motivation to excel. Find more information on the WTP website athttp://wtp.mit.eduorcontact WTP at wtp@mit.edu

