July 15 & 16, 2013 Boston Marriott Quincy, Quincy, Massachusetts July 15: Hands-on Workshops July 16: Keynotes and Breakouts You are cordially invited to attend the 2013 CSTA Annual Conference (formerly known as the Computer Science & Information Technology (CS&IT) Conference). This years conference will be held at the Boston Marriott Quincy, just outside of Boston in Quincy, Massachusetts. Learning and Networking Opportunities: Take advantage of this opportunity for relevant professional development! ྾Explore issues and trends relating directly to your classroom ྾Network with top professionals from across the country and around the world ྾Interact with other teachers to gain new perspectives on shared challenges Some of this years session topics and workshops of special interest to K-8 include: ྾ Finch, Hummingbird, and Snap ྾ App Inventor ྾ Teaching HTML5/CSS3 with CodeAvengers.com ྾ Programming through Art and Math ྾ Using Robots to Teach 6-12 Grade Students to Program ྾ National Cyber Defense Competition for Grades 6-12 Act now to register for the 2013 CSTA Annual Conference at: www.cstaconference.org Pre-registration is required and will be accepted for the first 300 teachers. The registration deadline is June 16, 2013.Also, please note that you must complete the payment portion of the online form in order to be fully registered for the conference! Thanks to the generous donations of our sponsors, the registration fee of60(+60(+60 per workshop) includes lunches, resource materials, and closing session raffle. Please note that all workshops are bring your own laptop and that registration is limited to 30-40 participants, so be sure to register early to get your workshop choice. Workshop registrations are non-transferable and it will not be possible to change workshops onsite. Registration and workshop fees are non-refundable. The 2013 CSTA Annual Conference is made possible by the generous support of Microsoft, Microsoft Research, Oracle, and the Anita Borg Institute. Please join us for this exciting event! CSTA realizes that you have many professional development opportunities, however, this is one event that brings all current K8 computer science pedagogy and curriculum together under one roof. If you have only one chance this summer, CSTA 2013 is the place for you. Patrice Gans, Chair CSTA K-8 Task Force PSScratch's very own Karen Brennan will be presenting a workshop on Scratch 2.0

Looking forward to attending. Vicki Gold

