The weekly roundup is where the ScratchEd Team shares some of the major -- as well as some of the overlooked -- news, stories, and events related to Scratch that took place throughout the week. ScratchEd Weekly Roundup 05/05/12 - 05/11/12 Happy Teacher Appreciation week! A special THANK YOU to all the wonderful Scratch educators who support students in so many ways towards developing as computational creators. You rock! One week to Scratch Day! Celebrate Scratch Day with us on May 19, 2012. It's never too late to organize a Scratch Day event! Check out the new resources page with awelcome video, guides, and other resources to help you plan your event. - http://day.scratch.mit.edu/resources In celebration of Scratch Day and Scratch's 5th birthday this year, a prototype of Scratch 2.0 will be publicly available from May 17-21 for anyone to try. Check out some of the new features in the Scratch 2.0 preview video. - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/node/12687 Our 4th annualCreative Computingworkshop for educators will take place this summer, August 8-11 at MIT. This 4-day workshop, hosted in collaboration with Google'sCS4HSinitiative, offers K-12 educators a hands-on introduction to creative computing with Scratch. Enter the participant raffle now! -http://creativecomputing2012.eventbrite.com This Saturday, the Mozilla Foundation is hosting aWebMaking Instructor Community Conferencefor educators at MIT. This 1-day event tomorow, May 12, 10am-4pm, will bring together participants to collaborate, share experiences, and help each other in our common vision of teaching the world how to code, make stuff on the web, and express themselves online. -http://mitwebmakinginstructorconf.eventbrite.com In these short video vignettes, Ben Chun shares stories from his experiences using Scratch with 10th-12th graders, including how he previously rejected Scratch. Find out what happened! - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/interview-ben-chun-galileo-academy-science-technology Kara Kestner, a high school educator who piloted the Scratch curriculum guidein her classroom this year, shares reflections and advice from her pilot experience. Check out the story! - http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/pilot-perspectives-reflections-scratch-curriculum-guide-kara-kestner-sherwood-high-school These are just a few things that we found. Do you have news from the week that you'd like to share? Please post it as a comment below.?

