This issue of the ScratchNotes newsletter was sent out on September 23. ScratchNotes A seasonal newsletter for the Scratch educator community Fall 2011 Volume 3, Issue 1 Announcing The Scratch Curriculum Guide Draft We are pleased to announce the launch of our Scratch curriculum guide draft. We hope that you will explore the draft and give us feedback about it via the ScratchEd forums. If you might be interested in piloting the guide, please visit the announcement page for further information. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/resources/scratch-curriculum-guide-draft 2011-2012 ScratchEd PD Offerings The start of the school year signals a new season for ScratchEd professional development opportunities. Explore this year's list of ScratchEd PD offerings, including meetups, introductory workshops, webinars, and other special events. http://scratched.eventbrite.com/ ScratchEd Webinar Wednesdays Join members of the worldwide ScratchEd community for our free monthly webinar series, as we discuss a different Scratch topic, on the last Wednesday of each month. Don't miss Webinar Wednesday next week on September 28 at 7pm EDT for Getting Started with Scratch. See you online! http://scratchedwebinarsept2011.eventbrite.com/ Monthly Scratch Educator Meetups Already know Scratch, but want to meet other educators and learn more? Join us at our free monthly Scratch educator meetups at MIT which are held every first Saturday of the month. Register online for the first meetup of the school year on Saturday, October 1 from 10am-1pm. http://scratchedmeetupoct2011-eorg.eventbrite.com/ Intro To Scratch Workshop For Educators New to Scratch? Not sure how to get started? Join us for an introductory Scratch workshop at MIT on Saturday, October 29 from 8:30am-12:30pm. More information and registration are available online. http://scratchintrooct2011.eventbrite.com/ Save The Date: Scratch@MIT 2012 Mark your calendars! The biennial Scratch conference at MIT will be taking place on July 25-28, 2012. The conference website and call for proposals will be available soon. Until then, you can learn more about the conference on ScratchEd. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/scratchmit-2012-create-your-world Save The Date: Scratch Day 2012 Celebrate Scratch's fifth birthday by participating in a Scratch Day celebration on May 19, 2012! Want to join (or host) the party? Learn more about Scratch Day on the main event website - and meet, share, and learn with people from your part of the world. http://day.scratch.mit.edu 2011 McGraw-Hill Prize In Education The McGraw-Hill Research Foundation recently announced Mitch Resnick as a recipient of the 2011 Prize in Education. Read about Mitch's work in Technology and the Human Connection, a paper co-authored by this year's winners. Congratulations, Mitch! http://mcgraw-hillresearchfoundation.org/2011-winners/ Scratch Day In Brooklyn, NY Michael Tempel of the Logo Foundation and Packer Collegiate Institute will be hosting a Scratch Day event in Brooklyn, NY for students, teachers, and parents on Sunday, December 11, 2011 from 8:30am to 4pm. For more information or to register, please visit the event website. http://scratch.wiki.packer.edu/

