Creative Computing Symposium When: Saturday, July 13, 8:30am - 3:00pm? Where: Harvard Graduate School of Education, Cambridge, Massachusetts? Who: You + fellow educators + members of the CCOW Facilitation and ScratchEd Teams at Harvard ? Cost: $15, which includes parking, breakfast, and lunch ? How: Made possible through funding from Expanding Computing Education Pathways Alliance (ECEP), a National Science Foundation Broadening Participation in Computing Alliance Using computing creatively -- whether for personal expression or for problem solving -- is something that everybody should be able to do. We hope that you will be able to join us for the Creative Computing Symposium on Saturday, July 13 at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. The day-long Symposium is an opportunity to connect with other educators and support each others' learning about creative computing with Scratch. The Symposium also serves as a capstone event for the Creative Computing Online Workshop (CCOW), which began on June 3 and ends on July 12. More than 1,900 educators from around the world are participating in the workshop, which involves hands-on Scratch activities, interactions with other educators, and reflections on practice. Participation in the Online Workshop is not required to attend the Symposium, but Symposium attendees will benefit from having some basic familiarity with Scratch (for example, by completing the Week 1 activities of CCOW). The Symposium is something between a conference and a party -- in the spirit of participatory professional development activities like EdCamp and ScratchEd meetups, the Symposium is an opportunity to connect with colleagues and to deepen your learning. The day begins and ends with formal remarks, but the bulk of the day is segmented into several self-organized breakout sessions. At the beginning of the day, we'll decide on the topics that we would like to explore and then break into groups to pursue the learning that we're most excited about. Want to spend more time hands-on with Scratch? Propose or join a group of builders. Want to make plans and get feedback on a Scratch Club? Find like-minded colleagues for a discussion. This day is about you and your learning. More information and registration is available at http://cc-symposium.eventbrite.com.

A drawing was held for symposium participants who completed a short survey after the event. Congratulations to Susanna S., Janice G., and Janet D., who will each receive a free MaKey MaKeykit! Thank you to everyone who filled out the survey. Your responses will help inform future ScratchEd events.

WIll something similar to this event be held this year?

Will something similar to this event exist this year?

