This issue of the ScratchNotes newsletter was sent out on April 3, 2012. ScratchNotes A seasonal newsletter for the Scratch educator community Spring 2012 Volume 3, Issue 3 Scratch Day 2012: Happy 5th Birthday Scratch! Join us on May 19, 2012 to celebrate Scratch's 5th birthday! ScratchDay is a worldwide network of gatherings, where people come togetherto meet other Scratchers, share projects and experiences, and learnmore about Scratch. What will your Scratch Day look like? http://day.scratch.mit.edu Scratch@MIT 2012 Registration Now Open The biennial Scratch@MIT conference will be held this summer at MITin Cambridge, MA from July 25 to 28. Registration is now open and theconference program will be available April 15. http://events.scratch.mit.edu/conference Intro Scratch Workshop For Educators: Saturday, April 28 New to Scratch? Not sure how to get started? In conjunction with theCambridge Science Festival, we're hosting an introductory Scratchworkshop at MIT on Saturday, April 28 from 1pm to 4pm. You'll gethands-on experience with Scratch and a free Scratch Starter Kit totake home. http://csfscratch.eventbrite.com Monthly Scratch Educator Meetups: April 7, May 5, June 2 There are only 3 more Educator Meetups this academic year: April 7,May 5, and June 2! Meetups are free, include lunch and parking, andcan count towards PDP hours. If you want to meet other educators andgo deeper with Scratch, join the next meetup this Saturday, April 7. http://apr2012meetup.eventbrite.com ScratchEd Webinar Wednesdays Join members of the worldwide ScratchEd community for our freemonthly webinar series, as we discuss a different Scratch topic, onthe last Wednesday of each month. Don't miss the next WebinarWednesday, April 25 at 7pm EDT about designing Scratch Day events.Sign up online for a reminder. http://scratchedwebinarapr2012.eventbrite.com Scratch Starter Kits We've recently designed a Scratch Starter Kit that helps educatorsget started with Scratch. The kit includes a copy of the Scratchcurriculum guide, Scratch Cards, Scratch cat stickers, a Scratch USBkey preloaded with resources, and other materials. A limited quantityof starter kits are now available for purchase. http://scratchstarterkit.eventbrite.com Win A Free Scratch Starter Kit! Check out the newly updated ScratchEd members section. We've made iteasier to find Scratch educators that share your interests. Updateyour profile settings to start connecting with others! Update yourScratchEd profile by April 30 and you'll automatically be enteredinto a raffle to win a free Scratch Starter Kit. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/new-features-scratched-website-relaunch Scratch Curriculum Guide Pilot How have people been implementing the Scratch curriculum guide sinceits release last October? Learn more in a new ScratchEd story seriesentitled Pilot Perspectives. Also, if you have been using the guideand have feedback, please share it with us. http://scratched.media.mit.edu/stories/pilot-perspectives-reflections-scratch-curriculum-guide-alvin-kroon-kamiak-high-school

