We're creating Dance Parties and would to share with anyone. Are you on this part of the new Scratch curriculum? Let me know and we can have a video conference between classes too!

Those dance party projects are great! My classes would love them, but we're at 2nd-6th grade, not high school. Still, perhaps we might do a video conference. Bruce

Hi, Susan, The students have just started the new curriculum with this semester and are loving it. Weshould bemovingto this next week. I teach grades 6-8 in a parochial school. Please let me know if you would be interested in aVC with grade 8. -Betty

Hi B. Pickett and Bruce - I'm good with video conferening with all the dance parties! We're finishing up our dance parties. We're going to be making original Scratch Cards to go with our projects. If you go to YouTube and search on scratchcardresources, you'll find the channel that we just started. We'd love to try your Scratch Cards if you'd like to make some and maybe you'll try the ones we make! My class meets NYC time, Mondays, 1-1:46, Tuesdays 10:06-11:52, and Thursdays 10:54-11:40. W're really big on sharing problems so once a class we take some time, someone shows a problem, everyone helps to brainstorm a solution and that person gets to make the fix on the projector. We'd be glad to look at any problem and help you troubleshoot too! Let me know if any of these times work for your classes. We can't do it the week of Jan 23rd because of Regents Week but maybe the week after? or even next week? - doesn't have to be a whole period either - we're flexible! I just think it would be fun. :)

Thanks. I suspect my class would find your group exciting and inspiring. We don't have any natural time overlap, though. I teach 4th-6th (14 students) Mondays from 8:45-9:45 and 2nd-3rd (12 students) Wednesdays from 8:45-9:45. We're a very small school, though, and I think I could probably arrange a special time where we might connect for 15 minutes or more and perhaps your class could talk about what they've done. For our current project, each student is making their own version of Frogger. We'll probably be on this for another two weeks, but I hope to follow it up with a Dance Party project. If your class talked a bit about their Dance Party projects, it would be a great kickoff and perhaps they'd like to hear a few of us talk about our Frogger projects. If you're interested, I'll show your class schedule to my admins and see if we can coordinate a special time. The first or second week of February might work well for us. Bruce

definitely yes!! - hard to pull students out of other classes in high school though....

I'm sure we'd be able to meet your schedule somehow. I probably would just need to trade some time with other special subject teachers.

Susan-I located the cards and vidos on theYoutube channel-great idea! I'll be sharing this with my students and encouraging their participation with this. Our 7th grade classes overlapwith your Tues/Thurs schedule, so I would love to get our group conferencing with yours, possibly about the first week of Feb. (We have Catholic Schools Week coming up and our schedule gets thrown off a bit during this time.) Like Bruce said, I think our younger students would be inspired by talking with older students about Scratch. Bruce, which time zone are you in? Our 6th grade students would like to conference with you- we meet from 11:15-12:00 and 1:00-1:45 on M, W, and F. I have 15 students in each 6th grade class. We are in Nebraska in the Central Time Zone. Thanks, everyone. I look forward to hearing from you-Betty Pickett

HI! We are in Framingham, MA, about 15 miles west of Boston so we are in the Eastern Time Zone. We'd have to do it Monday or Friday 11:15-12:00 your time. (We have early release on Wednesdays.) I suspect I could arrange it. My group would be 14 students in 4th-6th grade. We are a very small school. - Bruce

Hi Betty - This sounds great. The first week of February sounds great. Let's make a dance party gallery in Scratch to share so we can all put projects there. This way we can all look at them before we get together in person. Anyone have ideas of how to do that best?

Hi, Susan, I created a Scratch Dance Party Gallery with the tags animation, arts, music. The link is here. http://scratch.mit.edu/galleries/view/150355 Everyone can post to it. That way, as more people join in the gallery can grow! WIth my students, they do not all have e-mail and therefore have not created their own Scracth accounts, but they are saving their projects to the school network, and I can upload them through my account.

Hi All - Here it is - January 31st! We are here in animation class right now (after a week of no regular classes for NYState Regents week) and have added our dance parties to the galleryhttp://scratch.mit.edu/galleries/view/150355 Hopefully all projects have also been posted here: YouTube Channel: ScratchCardResources These links will also have a homemade Scratch Card that will teach something that the person learned from doing the project and can now share. The video on YouTube is meant to show what the Scratch Card accomplishes. I think we've now figured out a better way to handle the sound so that should be getting better in our next version of homemade Scratch Cards! Our class meets eastern time: Monday 1-1:46 Tuesday 10:06-10:52 Thursday 10:54-11:40 We're ready to meet and share with you! Anyone?

Hi Susan- We're in- do you have Skype? I sent you an email last week to see if we could set up a time. It looks like the Thursday time slot should work out well for our 7th grade group. We've been enjoying your students' projects. I'll email my SKYPE and email address to you to see if we can work something out for next week. -B.P.

We're in! Anyone - everyone else? Sorry I was slow in responding - grades were due today :( Now back to Scratch! I can go on tomorrow just to check and see but if it's next week, that's fine too. Tomorrow, we'll look at the projects in the gallery together! We're just now moving onto the interactive band - They got interested in audio from the dance party and I promised some time to do some original audio editing. Then when we saw the interactive band sheet, it seemed to be a perfect match!

When I started actually using Scratch as a regular part of class last year, I knew those step by step directions that were out on the Internet were not what I wanted but I just didn't know it well enough myself to have put together a curriculum. I worked with an organization that was doing gaming for teens but even they only put together step by step instructions. This curriculum that you put together and the ed community has really enlivened my teaching and has brought out the best in my students!

